Teboho Setena A problem with the withdrawal of money at South African Post Office (Sapo) outlets in selected Free State towns in the Xhariep region left se­veral social grants beneficiaries stranded. Several beneficiaries complained that they were unable to withdraw money at designated outlets since Wednesday (31/10) until Saturday, 3 November. The problem believed to be relating to insufficient money at Sapo outlets, was reportedly experienced in towns that include Trompsburg, Edenburg, Jagersfontein and Fauresmith. Many of them returned home empty- handed. Express was inundated with complaints by several beneficiaries who bitterly lamented frustration after they could not withdraw money at Sapo outlets over four days. Adding to their frustration was apparent failure to get clarity about what the cause was for money not being available at Sapo outlets. Some said they were informed late during the four days that there was no money available, causing an uproar. “It was disappointing that the personnel at the Post Office in Trompsburg only informed us that there was no money after we had queued for hours in the blistering sun. “I was, together with other people, then advised to come back later to attempt to withdraw cash. “There was however no guarantee that anyone will get money,” said an unhappy benefi­ciary, who wish not to reveal his identity. It was unclear if the problem with the withdrawal of money was due to insufficient money made available by the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) in the province, or if the problem was with systems at Sapo outlets in the region. One beneficiary who receives old age pension said he repeatedly tried to phone Sapo’s regional manager without getting any explanation for what the problem was. “In small towns you cannot expect big amounts of money at Sapo outlets because business is very poor. Most people survive on grants. “It is extremely frustrating for those who travel long distances from farms to be told or discover there is no money available at the Post Office,” said one beneficiary. Express’s effort to get comment from Sassa in the Free State regarding the debacle was futile. However, it has emerged that at some towns people were able to withdraw money since Monday (05/11). 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  