Christina Pitt SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two women were killed in KwaZulu-Natal over the weekend, one allegedly by her step-son and the other by her ex-boyfriend, police said on Monday. On Friday, a 39-year-old suspect handed himself over to police following the murder of his step-mother in KwaNyavu in Umsunduzi. READ: Westbury erupts after 2 arrested for woman's murder "It is alleged that the suspect and his step-mother had an argument over household chores," police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said. "The suspect allegedly grabbed a knife and fatally stabbed her on the head, chest and body. He is appearing at the Camperdown Magistrate's Court later today." A 30-year-old suspect was arrested for the murder of his ex-girlfriend while she was socialising with her friends in KwaBhontshisi near Wyebank. "It is alleged that on the same day at about 16:55, the 48-year-old victim and her friends were consuming alcohol at KwaBhontshisi near Wyebank when the suspect arrived and demanded to speak with her," Mbele said. READ: Murder rate for women, children is 'disturbing' - ISS analyst Suspect on the run "It is alleged that the victim refused to speak to the suspect who pulled out a knife and stabbed her on the neck. She was rushed to the hospital where she succumbed to her injuries on arrival." Meanwhile, in the Durban suburb of Phoenix, a warrant for the arrest of a 45-year-old man accused of shooting and wounding his girlfriend was issued. "It is alleged that on 30 September 2018 at midnight, [the suspect] shot and wounded his former wife and her acquaintance whilst they were seated in a vehicle on Foresthaven Drive in Phoenix," Mbele said. "The victims sustained gunshot wounds to the chest and abdomen. He then sped off in his getaway vehicle and has since been on the run from police." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  