Jan Gerber Jair Bolsonaro, of the Social Liberal Party (Silvia Izquierdo, AP, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cabinet
has extended congratulations to two countries – Brazil for electing far-right
Jair Bolsonaro as its president, and Ethiopia for electing its first female
president, Sahle-Work Zewde. It also congratulated Cameroon's Paul Biya, who was inaugurated for his seventh term as president. "Cabinet also congratulates
the people of Brazil for holding a successful election which sees
President-elect of the Federative Republic of Brazil, H.E. Jair Bolsonaro as
the next Brazilian president," reads a statement distributed on Thursday after
Wednesday's Cabinet meeting. Bolsonaro
has been described as a "brash far-right congressman who has waxed
nostalgic for Brazil's old military dictatorship" and has drawn
comparisons to US president Donald Trump. After Bolsonaro's election last
month, Human Rights Watch said Brazil's judiciary and other key institutions
should resist any attempt to undermine human rights, the rule of law, and
democracy under Bolsonaro's government. READ: Gays, blacks still voting for Brazil's Bolsonaro despite rhetoric The organisation described
Bolsonaro as "a pro-torture, openly bigoted member of congress". "Brazil has independent
judges, committed prosecutors and public defenders, courageous reporters, and a
vibrant civil society," said José Miguel Vivanco, America's director at
Human Rights Watch. "We will join them in standing up against any attempt
to erode the democratic rights and institutions that Brazil has painstakingly
built in the last three decades." It is standard practice for Cabinet
to congratulate other countries on their elections. In the same statement, Cabinet
congratulated Ethiopia on electing Zewde and congratulated Cameroon's Paul Biya
who was recently inaugurated for his seventh term as president. "Cabinet also congratulated
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia for electing its first woman
president, Her Excellency Sahle-Work Zewde, who is the only current woman
president on the African continent. South Africa will continue to strengthen
its bilateral relations with Ethiopia on a number of areas which include trade,
political and economic relations," reads the statement. "Cabinet sends
congratulations to Cameroon's President Paul Biya, who was inaugurated for his
seventh term in office. Cabinet calls on all people of Cameroon to work
together towards a peaceful solution through an inclusive dialogue process.
Cabinet looks forward to the deepening of bilateral political, economic and
trade relations between South Africa [and] Cameroon." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  