Magazine Features PHOTO: CATERS/WWW.MAGAZINEFEATURES.CO.ZA. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An off-duty police officer in Brazil allegedly shot his friend in the head – before instantly turning the gun on himself when he realised his mistake. Flavio de Oliveira (31) who recently graduated from military police school, had apparently spent the afternoon drinking at a bar in Goiania, Brazil, with his friends. He’d planned to drive home after socialising and was inside his car last Thursday chatting to his mates, when a single shot rang out. The bullet, which allegedly came from inside the stationery vehicle, hit Matheus Castro at point blank range. The 20-year-old student was on his motorbike, dressed in a black t-shirt, close to the open window on the passenger side. Everyone scattered as the victim’s bike toppled over and he fell to the ground. He was rushed to the hospital but died shortly after from his injuries. CCTV released by investigators shows Flavio getting out of his car and walking around to the opposite side where his friend lay dying on the tarmac. Detectives claim the cop seemingly took a moment to check what he had done and then walked back to the driver’s side. He leaned in, took out the weapon and without hesitating, shot himself in the temple. His body immediately slumped forward coming to rest on the car door. He was declared dead at the scene. Homicide detective Magda D'Avila said witnesses reported the officer had been drinking heavily with friends for several hours and this may have impaired his judgement when he handled the gun without ‘due care’. “We believe he had his gun with him all the time and was about to drive home when he decided to pull out the weapon to show it off and it accidentally went off. “When he saw what he’d done, it seems he took the instant decision to take his own life. “He was a newly qualified military police officer and we’re looking at whether his inexperience with handling a loaded weapon contributed to this incident.” Forensic investigators are analysing security footage to see exactly what occurred and will assess whether the shot was accidental or if the weapon was faulty.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  