A proposed housing development set for Hanover Park and Macassar was approved by the City of Cape Town’s council late last month. The resolution passed on Thursday 25 October paves the way for the development of houses in the two communities. The City’s Transport and Urban Development Authority (TDA) concluded the contracts for the appointment of multidisciplinary teams tasked with overseeing the successful implementation of the developments­. Since the contracts will be in place for longer than three years, the TDA had to obtain council’s approval before the signing of the contracts could go ahead. “Together, the two contracts amount to approximately R12.6m. Once signed, multidisciplinary teams will oversee the planning, design and construction of at least 3000 housing opportunities in Macassar and Hanover Park. The housing opportunities will become available within the next two to five years, depending on the type of development and provided that there are no unforeseen delays,” said Brett Herron, former Mayco member for transport and urban development. He said the teams will also be responsible for the statutory land use applications and the environmental processes that will precede the housing developments. “At this stage we foresee that the developments will include site-and-serviced erven, double- and single-storey semi-detached units, as well as double- and single-storey free-standing units. “Where possible, the developments will include community facilities, open spaces where residents can socialise, and commercial and retail opportunities. “Thus, we are striving to create integrated and sustainable communities as far as possible so that the beneficiaries of these projects can have access to social amenities, work opportunities, and public transport.” He said the contracts are funded from the Housing Development Capital Fund. The purpose of the fund is to expedite the delivery of housing opportunities by making funding available for specialist services that municipalities may need. “I am grateful that council approved these contracts. The demand for decent housing is arguably one of the biggest challenges this administration is facing.We have to use all of the tools at our disposal to speed up delivery – be it from using longer term contracts to ensure quality control, to identifying well-located land for inclusionary and affordable housing,” he added.