Mzwanele Mkalipi Lwandle police station management and other role-players from the community attended the Six-month Station Performance Review session in Gordon’s Bay on Friday 9 November. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police records over the last nine months show an increase in house robberies and carjackings in the Lwandle policing precinct. This was revealed at a police performance review session held at the Gordon’s Bay Traffic Department hall on Friday 9 November. The statistics show these crimes are rampant in areas such as Wag ’n Bietjie, Zola, Pholile Park and Asanda Village. According to the Six-month Station Performance Review, there was an estimated five incidents of house robberies and five carjackings reported in these areas per week over the last nine months. This effectively amounts to a 1% month-to-month increase when compared to the same period last year. At the gathering, Lwandle police station commander Lieutenant Colonel Xolani Williams advised his component heads of department to investigate and possibly revise their strategies in a bid to ascertain whether those strategies are effective. He set a deadline of Monday 19 November for a recovery plan on all the key performance areas where the station has not performed well. “We need this plan so that we can approach the [upcoming] festive season prepared,” Williams explained. The station head stated the importance of having the necessary community and state crime fighting structures in place in combatting crime, along with a need to acquire more police vehicles to attend to complaints and permanent sector commanders to focus on certain areas and follow-up on leads that have been shared by the community. Williams also highlighted his concerns about court processes, calling for harsher measures to be put in place for criminals. He further advised residents to remain calm in such crime situations and think rationally. “Unless you feel you are facing an imminent life-or-death situation, don’t fight back,” he implored. “As hard as it may be, accept your situation and give your assailants time to take any material possessions they want. Speak only if spoken to, and try to keep your answers short and to the point. “Be conscious not to stare at the assailants, but nevertheless try to get a good look at them and memorise their physical details and clothing. “Listen for any names or other details that may help identify them later, like recognising the voice and height.” Williams further said the first few minutes of a home invasion is typically the most dangerous; this is when those inside the home must remain calm and quiet. “If you are not threatening, the assailants can concentrate on their goals and leave you unharmed,” he pointed out. “We strongly advise that residents and business owners speak to their families and staff about possible scenarios, so they can be aware of what to do should they ever find themselves confronted with a home invasion.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  