Christina Pitt Striking MyCiTi workers have been released from the Cape Town civic centre, after the building was placed on lockdown when protests began on the ground floor. The City of Cape Town's civic centre was locked down on Wednesday morning after a group of MyCiTi protesters entered the ground floor of the building. MyCiTi employees have been striking for weeks over labour demands since October 15. Five leaders were reportedly arrested inside the building. Multiple stun grenades were let off in the area outside the entrance during a tense stand-off with police around 11:00, as more strikers came to join their colleagues locked in the building. Strikers outside the civic centre threw stones at police in retaliation. At around 12:10, the arrested leaders were released, with the wildcat protest continuing outside the building under calmer circumstances. Earlier on Wednesday, tweets and video on social media showed a group of protesters on the ground floor of the civic centre, surrounded by police. One of the protest leaders, Johannes Gordon, claimed that they entered the building because the city's metro police said they would be assisted in speaking with new mayor Dan Plato. He told News24 metro police and South African Police Service members surrounded them on the ground floor. All exits were blocked. City media manager Luthando Tyhalibongo said they were attending to the situation, and would update the media on the developments shortly. One of the companies that employs MyCiTi staff, Kidrogen, said it has had to sack 80 of the workers to mitigate the impact of the strike, EWN reported on Wednesday. The 80 employees had not reported to work for five consecutive days during the unprotected strike, going against the company's disciplinary code of conduct.  #MyCiti leadership has been released.@TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/dAKeDKhKZN   Show down between police and what appear to be #MyCiti workers at the Civic Centre. (@ChristinaPitt94) pic.twitter.com/fE1qGYxmMS    #MyCiti workers are being held inside the Civic Centre. Leadership outside the building is calling for discipline. (@ChristinaPitt94) pic.twitter.com/KS7vfAdhmn   Captain Prins refuses to negotiate with #MyCiti leadership as he believes that they have not controlled the crowd.@TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/pl03cIhkcx  Striking workers (mainly MyCiti bus staff) have occupied the Civic Centre and prompted a lockdown of the building #myciti #capetown #news24 pic.twitter.com/yzuTlIifqd   I made it in and it turns out the MyCiti bus strikers are inside the building in front of this iconic photo ?? pic.twitter.com/Jc8DG3IjkN  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  