Benjamin Plutsick Amanda Kilmister and Paul Kilmister. (Photo: Facebook/Amanda Kilmister and Paul Kilmister) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A father-of-four is fighting for his life following a horrific car crash that claimed the lives of his wife and son. Paul Kilmister (44) from Victoria, Australia was left seriously injured after his family’s car was involved in a head-on collision with a truck on Friday 2 November. The truck driver was reportedly driving on the wrong side of the road when he crashed into them. Pauls’ wife, Amanda Kilmister (37) and their twelve-year-old son were killed instantly. While Paul, their two-year-old and eight-month-old sons were airlifted to hospital after the collision, ABC reports. The dad-of-four and his eight-month-old son Austin, remain in a serious condition at Alfred Hospital in Melbourne. According to the doctors, little Austin suffered a back fracture, while Yahoo7 reported. Morgan (2) has been discharged from the hospital. A hospital spokesperson told 9News that although Paul is currently stable, his condition remains serious and is also still unaware of the deaths of his wife and son. Amanda's brother, Daniel Gwynne, says the family is heartbroken. “We’ve been totally devastated by the events of the past few days,” Daniel told local media. “Right now our families are banding together to rally behind Paul and the boys.” Victoria Police have since said that a 31-year-old man had been arrested in connection with the incident and is expected to be charged over the crash, reports Daily Mail. The truck driver, who had got out his truck to help the family, only suffered minor injuries but was treated for shock at the scene. The family’s fourth son Felix (14) was staying with friends when the crash happened. Daniel described his sister as “incredibly warm and nurturing” and had a message for the truck driver involved in the collision. “Our thoughts are with you … an incident that happened in a few short minutes will likely affect you for quite some time to come. “I hope you have the love and support of your family.” Sources: Mirror, Daily Mail, 9News, ABC 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  