Correspondent Newly appointed traffic wardens in the City of Johannesburg have been granted extra powers, meaning that they can now enforce by-laws and control traffic on the city's roads. According to the City, 171 new traffic wardens were appointed by the Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) on Wednesday. The wardens were Extended Public Works Programme (EPWP) workers who were trained to perform traffic pointsman duties, the City said in a statement. After engagements between JMPD chief of police David Tembe, the Gauteng government and Transport MEC Ismail Vadi, it was decided that the wardens would be granted additional powers. According to the City, the wardens can require any driver to stop their vehicle, when in uniform; regulate and control traffic on public roads and give direction; ask any person to give his or her name, address, and other particulars required for identification purposes if the traffic warden suspects that the person has committed an offence; and demand that the owner, operator or driver of any vehicle produces any documents as may be prescribed in terms of the law. New recruits The City says this means the wardens can now enforce by-laws, issue infringements notices, and be on point duty. The wardens would also be able to render their services to the private sector, the City said. Meanwhile, 1 500 new JMPD recruits will also be on the streets of Joburg soon. Of these, 835 are currently completing their training at the JMPD Satellite Veritas Academy in Meadowlands, which was launched on Wednesday. Joburg Mayor Herman Mashaba and Joburg MMC of Public Safety Michael Sun, launched the academy. Join me in welcoming the @JoburgMPD Traffic Wardens All of them leave this ceremony today ready to serve, protect, and respect every single one of the citizens of @CityofJoburgZA #Joburgworks pic.twitter.com/f7w2McGbCi  "The traffic wardens are appointed under the National Road Traffic Act 93 of 1996 Business Act 71 of 1996;Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977;- @HermanMashaba #JMPDGrad #JoburgWorks pic.twitter.com/HBzjdmTEbD  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  