Jenna Etheridge A motorist was caught on camera driving over Egyptian goslings in the Cape Town CBD on Friday. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A motorist accused of deliberately running over and killing two Egyptian goslings in the Cape Town CBD last week has been identified and traced, the SPCA said on Thursday. "We can confirm a case has been opened [on Wednesday] with Cape Town central police," said Cape of Good Hope SPCA spokesperson Belinda Abraham. READ: Capetonians rally to assist SPCA case against man who 'deliberately' killed two goslings Western Cape police confirmed that they were investigating the animal cruelty case. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. Abraham said they had strong evidence and it was now in the hands of the police to decide whether to lay charges and make an arrest. The incident, involving a grey Mazda, was captured on video on Friday and caused a large outcry on social media. Distressed A passer-by had been filming a family of Egyptian geese - two adults and six goslings - which were crossing the road at the intersection of Spin and Adderley streets when the motorist drove over them, allegedly intentionally. The animals had used a pedestrian crossing. The SPCA dispatched representatives to the scene to retrieve the remains of the goslings, which would have been taken in for a post-mortem and used for evidence. But the remains had already been disposed of by the time they arrived. Abraham said the adult geese were very distressed at the time and did not want to leave the scene. "Egyptian geese are particularly bonded with their young," she explained. Capetonians rallied to support the SPCA with the case. A forensic videographer offered expertise for any court appearances free of charge and others said they would help with a private prosecution if the State chose not to proceed with the case. "We have had such great support... it says a lot about Cape Town and the community," Abraham said previously. "While one person may have no heart, there are so many others rallying together and saying that this is not right and we need to do something." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Goose causes chaos at Detroit baseball game A Canada goose lands on the field during a rain delay at a Detroit Tigers game and ends up crashing into the scoreboard, before being rescued by a vet attending the game. WATCH: The arrival of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Hannah Cornelius A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: More than 1 300 homeless after Khayelitsha blaze More than 1300 people have been left homeless after hundreds of shacks were destroyed in a blaze which broke out in Khayelitsha, the City of Cape Town said. WATCH: Scary dashcam footage shows how two trucks collide head-on in Mpumalanga Two trucks collided head-on and a third was pushed off the road from Bethel to Kriel in Mpumalanga on Friday.

Dashcam footage from one of the trucks showed the chaotic scene, which involved four heavy vehicles taking up two lanes. WATCH: Taxi driver arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road A taxi driver has been arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road to avoid traffic in Bryanston. The driver was filmed by a biker who forced him to turn around. WATCH: This 22-year-old accounting student is changing healthcare in his community When Thembekile Mahintsho's father died in 2015, the 22-year-old accounting student became determined to bring accessible healthcare to his community in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. U.S. cardinal removed amid sex abuse allegations The former Archbishop of Washington, 87-year-old Cardinal Theodore McCarrick has become the latest high-ranking member of the Catholic church to have been brought down by sexual abuse allegations. McCarrick's suspension was announced Wednesday aft... EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Turkey has recordings of alleged Saudi murder - paper Turkey's investigation into the disappearance of prominent Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi has revealed recordings made on his Apple Watch, a Turkish newspaper reported on Saturday, and President Trump vowed "severe punishment" if Saudi's were in... South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. Moving the remains of 40,000 people Work begins to exhume thousands of skeletons to make way for HS2 construction. The weirdest thing ever happend on the road! Man gets out his car in the traffic light and ends up running behind his empty car. Woman drives mobility scooter onto motorway Towanna Murphy films a woman driving her mobility scooter on a busy road in Memphis, Tennessee, and tries to help. The woman was taken to hospital and safely returned home. Pilbara Minerals confirms high quality product for lithium shipment 09 Oct 2018 - Australian lithium producer, Pilbara Minerals (ASX:PLS) has confirmed its first concentrate shipment from its lithium tantalum project in Western Australia is a high quality product. Singing and dancing as Cyril Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa has been elected as South Africa's new president and celebrations followed the announcement in the South African Parliament. Thai 'T-Rex' traffic cop Traffic police Tanit Bussabong wears a T-rex costume to work outside a school in Nakhon Nayok, Thailand to teach children and motorists traffic laws in a novel way. WATCH: Hiker has close encounter with wild caracal on Table Mountain An unsuspecting hiker had a close encounter with a caracal on a trail in Table Mountain National Park on Monday. WATCH: Two 'high-ranking gangsters' among mourners at Pete Mihalik's funeral The funeral of slain Cape Town lawyer Pete Mihalik was held at the St Mary's Cathedral on Saturday. Court shown audio recording of alleged killing of Michelle Savage and her mother Noises made in the moment a man allegedly shot dead his ex-wife, mother-in-law and pet dog in an execution-style killing were captured on a security camera. Bodies of 11 babies found hidden in former funeral home in Detroit The bodies of 11 babies were found hidden at a former funeral home in Detroit on Friday after authorities received an anonymous letter leading them to the remains. Conway G. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. The Street Art Galleries of Cape Town Rather than an act of vandalism, many see graffiti art as a form of visual poetry engaging with the people of the city. This is your guide to exploring the open-air galleries of the Mother City in South Africa. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. PETA urge Drake to end association with Canada Goose PETA has penned an open letter to Drake urging the rapper to end his clothing line OVO Clothing's association with outwear brand Canada Goose due to the brand's extensive use of animal fur and feathers fro their garments. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. Absa Premiership 2018/19 profile: Cape Town City A look at the profile of Absa Premiership side Cape Town City ahead of the 2018/19 season. May dons dancing shoes in SA The prime minister shimmied with school kids in Cape Town at the start of her visit to Africa. WATCH: MyCiTi bus drivers' 'wildcat' strike continues into second day A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Middle lane drivers responsible for over half of all lane drifts Middle lane drivers are responsible for 53% of all lane drifts committed by UK motorists on motorways, a study by Direct Line Car Insurance reveals.

Almost 1.5 million drivers have had to swerve off the road to avoid an accident. WATCH: This 22-year-old accounting student is changing healthcare in his community When Thembekile Mahintsho's father died in 2015, the 22-year-old accounting student became determined to bring accessible healthcare to his community in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town. 'Motivated' Province ready to turn it on against the Sharks Centre Ruhan Nel says that Western Province are motivated to perform at Newlands ahead of the Currie Cup final against the Sharks this weekend. Preview: 2018 Currie Cup final in numbers Here are some key numbers ahead of Saturday's Currie Cup final between Western Province and the Sharks at Newlands. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.