Jeanette Chabalala Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan has come out strongly in defence of his daughter, saying she does not do business with the State. "My daughter has not done any business with the state," Gordhan testified before the judicial commission of inquiry into the allegations of state capture on Wednesday. "Play the ball not the man, come to me if there are political objectives, don't choose vulnerable targets," he said. - Follow the Live Update here Gordhan told inquiry chairperson Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo that allegations that his daughter used her relationship with him to get tenders were a "blatant lie, dangerous and unfounded". Gordhan also strongly condemned attacks on family members of witnesses appearing at the commission. "This information about my daughter is for the public to understand that she has not engaged in malfeasance of any kind," he said. 'My enemy's enemy is my friend' On Tuesday, the EFF released a statement in which it claims Anusha Gordhan had benefited from "government tenders for consulting and advisory services". Gordhan also told Zondo about those trying to obstruct the processes of the state capture inquiry and intimidating witnesses appearing before the commission. "What we are seeing is not just politics of destruction, but the practical manifestation of 'my enemy's enemy is my friend'." Following his closing remarks, Zondo said he'd noted that some didn't want the commission to be successful or to continue, while there were others who wanted it to succeed. He said very large sections of society had expressed their full support for this commission. "We are quite clear there is a job to be done for the country, we will do it, accept certain risks, but we will do the job and not be deterred. I hope that nothing done or said by anybody will be allowed to deter people who want to come forward and assist." A 'dog of WMC' The commission would look at what it could do so that people would continue to come forward, Zondo said. On Tuesday, EFF leader Julius Malema declared that the political party had decided to fight Gordhan. "Our attack on Pravin Gordhan is an attack on white monopoly capital (WMC) because Pravin is the dog of WMC. "We must host the dog until the owner comes out, and when the owner comes out we will deal with him," Malema told a large group of people picketing outside the Tiso Blackstar venue where the commission of inquiry into state capture is being held. Malema urged party members to be prepared for war. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  