Unathi Obose Mvuzo Nyandeni  PHOTOS: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories With the festive season looming and the ever present threat of carnage on our roads, the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) is planning to tighten the screws and nail traffic offenders, particularly those who drive under the influence of alcohol. In a proposal to the Department of Justice, the RTMC is calling for stringent measures against the offenders. These include the reclassification of drunk and driving offences, speeding and reckless driving in terms of the Criminal Procedure Act,. RTMC wants drunk and driving offence to be changed from a schedule two to a schedule five offence, which would mean a more harsher treatment for offenders. Drunk driving cases would fall in the same category as rape, murder, theft and fraud. Offenders would as well spend at least seven days in the cells before they apply for bail. City Vision went out to the streets to talk to people and hear their opinions regarding the new proposal. Respondents have mixed feelings about the proposals, while others see it as an excellent deterrent to minimise road accidents. Opponents say government has better things to focus on than drunk driving. MVUZO NYANDENI, 
 SITE B: “It is a good thing, especially that we are approaching festive(season). People will think twice before they sit behind the steering wheel when they are drunk. This is a great plan that government is proposing because people will stop speeding and drive while they are drunk,” said Nyandeni. MAXWELL MSOSA, 
 HARARE: “The government needs thorough introspection before passing this into law ... This is totally wrong. The police cannot arrest and charge you now, when you’ll have to still apply for a bail after seven days. Immediately after you appear in court, you have the right to apply for a bail.”. JOHN DEMFU, SST informal settlement, Town Two: Lambasted the proposal, saying that it’s a waste of taxpayers money to keep a person behind bars for a minor offence. “People can lose their jobs while waiting to apply for bail, and who is going to feed their families. Government must find another plan to resolve the issue of drunk driving,” he said. BULELWA MXONJENI, MAKHAZA: said she can’t wait for government to approve the proposal. She said motorists will be careful on the road because they are causing too many accidents. “People drive recklessly and kill people. I believe when they come out of prison after seven days, they will be rehabilitated,” she stated. THANDOKUHLE MBEDLANA, MAKHAZA: Echoed Mxonjeni’s sentiments that people die every day because of reckless drivers. He says if the proposal can be approved, there’ll be fewer accidents on our roads. “This proposal came at the right time because December is here and people are driving long distances.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.