Pelane Phakgadi Police car lights. (Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Motorists watch out – law enforcement officials are expected to be out in full force on the N1 between Modimolle and Polokwane in Limpopo in an attempt to reduce fatalities in the area. Accidents recorded by the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) show at least 141 deaths on the stretch of road in the last six months. RTMC spokesperson Simon Zwane said the corporation was working on ensuring the road was as safe as possible during the 2018 festive season festive season. RTMC officers are expected to patrol the area in conjunction with the Limpopo traffic department. "We also need to educate out motorists that negligent driving and speeding ends lives, and they should try refrain completely from perpetrating such acts," he said. In 2015, the RTMC revealed that at least 137 deaths were recorded along the 146km stretch of road. The following year, the number of fatalities rose to 181, but the figure was slightly reduced to 178 in 2017. However, this year the number of deaths is already at 141 even though 2018 hasn't even ended yet. "Driving into oncoming traffic, unroadworthy vehicles and speeding are mainly the reasons we see such here," Zwane said when referring to the causes of the accidents. READ: PICS: At least 7 killed in fiery N1 crash, Limpopo motorists urged to use alternative routes He also mentioned fatigue and urged motorists to rest when tired. In March 2015, Minister of Public Services and Administration Collins Chabane died on the same stretch of road after his car hit a truck that was doing a U-turn. In 2016, Limpopo agriculture MEC Joy Matshoge was also killed there. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande recently announced a R4bn investment to improve the road. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  