Akere T Muna Paul Biya (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories On 6 November, Paul Biya was inaugurated
for the seventh time. The 85-year-old has already been in power for the last 36
years and will now serve another seven-year term. President Biya won disputed elections on 7 October amidst rising unrest in
Cameroon. The country is divided into the Francophone area – which makes up
four-fifths of territory – and the smaller Anglophone area. In the last two
years, the latter region has been in a situation just short of civil war. Over the decades since unification, the Anglophone regions have been
increasingly dominated and felt resentful. This led to a movement that, in 2016, began by holding
strikes and peaceful demonstrations. Activists called for the restoration of
the English-speaking education and judicial system. The government responded with furious repression and shut down any discussions
about federalism. This led to a spiralling crisis. Today, the talk is about
secession, while the conflict has become bloody. There are now over 300 000
internally displaced persons and more than 40 000 refugees in Nigeria. At least
90 villages have been razed, while over 400 civilians have been killed and
thousands more wounded. At least 40% of Cameroon’s revenue derives from the Anglophone
regions, but the local economy has been deeply undermined by the insecurity. The voting system This is the context in which Cameroon's elections were held last month. In
theory, this exercise was an opportunity for citizens to shape the direction of
the nation. But the reality is very different. The body that organises Cameroon's elections is supposedly autonomous, but all
its members are appointed by the president and can be removed at will.
 All electoral disputes are settled by the Constitutional Council, but all
its members are also appointed by the president. The Minister of Territorial
Administration, another presidential appointee, handles all other
administrative issues connected with elections. In Cameroon, the voting system is first-past-the-post and uses multiple
ballots. Voters are given papers for all the candidates and then cast their
vote by putting their favoured nominee into the ballot box. This means they can
leave the booth with the papers of the other candidates, allowing vote-buyers
the ability to check how people voted. Calls to adopt a single ballot paper
system have been ignored. For presidential hopefuls, getting onto the ballot in the first place is
challenging. Nominees must pay around $60 000 to submit their candidacies. They
must either be endorsed by a party with at least one elected official or, if
running as an independent, produce at least 300 signatures from specific kinds
of dignitaries from every region. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa
on Twitter and Facebook In the elections themselves, there are close to 25 000 polling stations. What
candidate can field representatives in each of these locations? The official
campaign period lasts two weeks and it is illegal to campaign before this
period. How can one visit 360 districts in just 14 days? The presidential
campaign team, which includes ministers and other dignitaries, travels the
country at the expense of the state, meaning the playing field is nowhere near
level. Meanwhile, the state media turns into the ruling party’s propaganda
machine. Despite the very high hurdles, however, I decided to run for president. I have
spent the last 25 years defending good governance and fighting corruption. In
2000, at a time Cameroon was accused of being the most corrupt country in the
world, I founded the national chapter of international anti-corruption NGO
Transparency International. Needless to say, this earned me the ire of the
establishment. I went on to work for bodies such as the African Development
Bank and High Level Panel on Illicit Financial Flows from Africa. In this time, I watched as my country steadily moved in the wrong direction.
And with the worsening situation in the Anglophone regions threatening to pull
apart the fabric of our nation, a sense of responsibility weighed on my soul. I
knew that I had to put my experience at the service of our citizens and attack
the issues at their source – the system. In the end, though, I withdrew my candidacy and backed Maurice Kamto. There is
nowhere in African where the opposition has removed a dictator like Biya
without presenting a common front. In Cameroon, the remaining eight candidates
held some further meetings, but never met once together as a group. This meant
that there was no single opposition candidate. This fact discouraged voters who
concluded it was a waste of time. Legal challenge In the final tally, Biya officially won with 71.28%. Kamto came second with
14.23%. But there were reports of massive fraud. The absence of opposition
officials at many polling stations allowed the stuffing of ballot boxes. An
incomplete biometric system meant that certain people voted multiple times. The legal challenge against the election results that followed exposed the
Constitutional Council as political institution. This all played out on
national television and many citizens, for the first time, witnessed the fraud
that cripples our electoral process. The danger that Cameroon now faces is that its elections’ lack of credibility
could lead voters to question the need to participate. And if electoral justice
becomes captured by politics and hence incapable of addressing issues raised by
the proper, the streets will take over. Since the presidential elections, there
have been demonstrations against what has been described as a faulted political
process. These demonstrations have been relayed to the Diaspora in Europe and
America. Cameroon needs to design an adequate electoral system. It is essential to make
reforms so that the individual controlling the process is not also a player in
it. This year, Cameroons saw first-hand the effects of a lopsided system. If
the electoral playing field is not evened out then the country risks being
stuck in an interminable loop created by a government for the government.
Cameroonians will only stand for this so long. Till then, Cameroon remains a
state captured by a few oligarchs. Distributed
by APO Group on behalf of African Arguments.  

 View multimedia content  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  