Jenna Etheridge Brian Wainstein (Supplied, Interpol) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of the men accused of the murder of "Steroid King" Brian Wainstein is expected to enter into a plea agreement with the State, the Western Cape High Court heard on Friday. Judge Derek Wille therefore separated the case of Matthew Breet from that of his co-accused. Breet was expected to enter into the agreement on Wednesday. His brother Sheldon Breet, as well as Cheslin Adams and Fabian Cupido are expected to appear in the High Court again for a pre-trial conference on February 8. They are all in custody. The four are accused of killing the international steroid smuggler at his Constantia home in 2017 and face charges of murder and conspiracy to commit housebreaking with the intent to murder. Adams faces additional charges of housebreaking with intent to murder, theft, and possession of a firearm and ammunition. Cupido was also charged with possession of a firearm and ammunition. According to the State's summary of facts, the Breet brothers were Wainstein's bodyguards and Sheldon Breet was also involved in Wainstein's "business dealings". ALSO READ: Cop informant accused of killing 'Steroid King' at risk of assassination, court hears Cupido, the prosecution alleges, worked for Sheldon and was a 27s gang member, along with Adams who was also allegedly affiliated to the Spoilt Bratz street gang. Cupido and Adams are ostensible "associates" of the owner of a Cape Town tyre business. According to the State, Matthew and the businessman "discussed the possible assassination of the deceased" about a week before the murder. Cupido was also allegedly approached that week and the assassination was discussed in the presence of Sheldon and the businessman. The day of the murder, a meeting took place at the businessman's premises and he, along with Cupido, Sheldon and Adams, was present, it is alleged. They allegedly conspired to murder Wainstein; it was decided that Adams would enter the house and shoot him, while Cupido would "serve as the driver of the vehicle transporting the hitmen". Adams and a State witness are alleged to have entered the main bedroom where Wainstein was sleeping and shot him five times. Wainstein's girlfriend and child, who were in the bed at the time, were not injured. Adams and the State witness left, allegedly taking seven cellphones from the house as well as R100 in cash. At the time of his murder, Wainstein was wanted in the United States for illegally importing anabolic steroids. In a separate case, Matthew faces charges of alleged possession of illegal weaponry and ammunition, related to the alleged discovery of the firepower in his Jeep in Sea Point in August 2017. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  