Canny Maphanga The house in Vlakfontein where seven bodies were discovered. (File) (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The highly publicised Vlakfontein murder case has been provisionally postponed to November 20 after one of the accused changed his mind and decided to apply for bail. Fifita Khupe, 61, and his 27-year-old co-accused made an appearance in the Lenasia Magistrate's Court on Monday. Khupe's bail application was set to proceed in the morning. However, it was postponed after it was revealed to Magistrate Maggie van der Merwe and the State that the second suspect had instructed his newly appointed lawyer Makau Sekgatja to bring forward a formal bail application. He initially abandoned his bail application during his first court appearance last week. Khupe is facing seven counts of murder, while his co-accused is facing seven counts of murder and three additional counts of rape. ALSO READ: Vlakfontein murders: NPA says it has a 'solid case' as pair appears in court Khupe and his co-accused are accused of murdering four women and three children from the Khoza family in Vlakfontein, south of Johannesburg. The police found the seven bodies buried under sand in a house in Vlakfontein on October 29, after neighbours noticed a strange stench coming from the home. The motive behind the killings is yet to be revealed. The pair will be detained in separate prisons, due to unsubstantiated allegations from the co-accused that he was being threatened by Khupe. "These allegations are unsubstantiated at this stage. It was indicated by the investigating officer that accused 1 will be detained at Krugersdorp Prison while accused 2 (Khupe) will be detained at Johannesburg central prison, so that takes care of that allegation," Van der Merwe said. The men will remain in custody ahead of the formal bail application.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  