Unathi Obose Members of SA Soong Ching Ling Foundation and community leaders unpack the groceries. PHOTOS: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Christmas came early for the SST fire victims in Town Two when they received food parcels fom the South Africa Soong Ching Ling Foundation on Thurdsday last week, at Kilambo Hall in Makhaya. Some of the donations included sugar, flour, teabags, rice, mealie-meal, canned fish, cooking oil and many other things. The donations came in handy as the victims of last month’s fire still grapple to put their lives together. More than 300 shacks were destroyed and a man was killed when a fire broke out in Town Two last month, leaving more than 1000 people homeless. Since then, help has been pouring in, and the donation is the latest in a series of intervention­s. The foundation is working with various communities in the province by promoting international relations and safeguarding world peace. And there was no better time for some of the victims to get the donations. “The groceries that I received will make a huge difference. I won’t buy everything for Christmas, instead I’ll just add a few things. I’m so relieved. “Now I only need to make sure that I settle the lay buy for my children’s clothes,” said Bulelwa Nonkwitshi. She urged the government to build them proper houses. “We need houses. Every year we suffer the same fate. Our lives are in danger. We don’t know when are we going to die,” she said. ANC member of parliament Leonard Ramatlakane, who accompanied members of the foundation, praised the foundation for assisting the victims. “They are here to fulfill their promise by assisting the fire victims,” he said, adding that as the party they had asked the foundation to help. “They (foundation) arrived at the right time. As we all know Christmas is time for gifts, reunion and love.” Foundation chairperson Chen Qing said they strived to promote friendship between South Africans and Chinese people. “After we heard about the fire we decided to collect food and donate it to the victims. We’ve been working with the Khayelitsha community for a long time, donating food and other things,” she said. She added that they have in the past donated food to Baphumelele Children’s Home in Site B. Ward 96 councillor Thando Pimpi thanked the foundation for the support. See page 11 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  