Correspondent Xolobeni village near Mbizana is divided into two groups – those who oppose plans to mine the dunes for titanium and those who welcome them. Picture: Leon Sadiki Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe on Sunday confirmed that he had met with a group concerned over mining developments in the Xolobeni region in the Eastern Cape. “We respect the right of people to say no to mining, as well as the right of those who say yes,” said Mantashe in a statement following his meeting with representatives from the Amadiba Crisis Committee (ACC) at the Wild Coast Sun in Port Edward on Saturday. “As a responsible regulator of this critical sector, we must have finality. It is not about mining versus tourism or any other sector; but about the holistic development of Xolobeni.” Meeting with Amadiba Crisis Committee & their legal representatives gets underway at the WildCoast Sun, Mbizana Road. This meeting follows our, September, meeting held with community members in #Xolobeni pic.twitter.com/Iv7gWxW80x A public meeting the minister held in the area in September was disrupted after ACC held a protest outside the venue. This led to ACC's lawyer Richard Spoor being arrested, as well as police firing tear gas. READ: Attorney who marched on Mantashe's mining meeting charged Lawyers for ACC tweeted on Saturday that following the meeting Mantashe had been invited to Komkhulu (Great Place) of Xolobeni. Following the Amadiba Crisis Committee’s caucus meeting, we have formally written to Minister Mantashe reiterating the invitation for him to come to the Komkhulu (Great Place) of Xolobeni. Look forward to welcoming him there! pic.twitter.com/iZbXiFqvKD On Sunday Mantashe said he would return to the area in order to “ensure finality to the matter”. The ACC launched a court challenge against Mantashe's department and Australian company Transworld Energy and Mineral Resources (TEM) which was heard in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria in April. ALSO READ:Human rights lawyer charged for pointing his finger at policeman In a City Press article, members of the community explained how they had spent years fighting TEM which wanted to begin titanium mining in the area. According to the weekly newspaper, some residents of the area believed the mining would harm the environment and disrupt their way of life - while others suggest it would brings jobs and improve infrastructure. READ: Mantashe: I didn't give the go ahead on Xolobeni   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  