Purnal Poonusamy PHOTO: suppliedKZN Top Model finalist Robyn Hill. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories DURBAN born and bred teenager Robyn Hill (16) was recently selected as one of the KZN Top Model finalists for 2018. Robyn , who is currently a grade 11 pupil at Kuswag Skool, is a lover of various genres of dance, and has a keen interest in athletics and modelling. Having entered a few pageants over the course of this year, Robyn decided to go for the KZNTMSA after she found out that the pageant aids the underprivileged youth, an issue she feels very strongly about. After being selected as a finalist, Robyn embarked on charity work to raise funds for the organisation. If she wins, she hopes to continue her charity work. She would also like to encourage the youth to enter pageants, as it is a good platform to get involved within the community. Some of the charities Robyn has worked with, together with her agency Zeit Models, includes fashion shows at the Malvern Children’s Homes, Mooi Hawens Old Age Home, GMO Fashion show with the disabled at Virgina airport, and Cupcakes for Kids with Cancer with Fables and Fantasies. Something already on the cards for Robyn is a pageant at Mooi Hawens old age home. At home, Robyn is the youngest in her family with two older sisters who live away from home. Speaking on how she juggles school, family, pageant life, and charity work, she said: “I believe that if you are passionate about something you would always have time or make time for it. So for me, who has a busy schedule, I still always have time for my family, school, friends, the competitions and charity work.” Looking to the future, Robyn aims to finish school and further her studies with art. When asked to give a message to the community, Robyn said: “Mothers and fathers, get involved in your child’s passions, because they can’t do it without your support. “My message to others is, if you are passionate about something — practice like you never won and perform like you’ve never lost. “You have only one life, live it. Embrace each day, because you never know what might come the next day. My dance partner was diagnosed with blood cancer a few days ago, and that made me realise again, do as much as you can while you can each day.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  