Alex Mitchley Mandrax tablets and cat seized by police during a drug raid (Picture: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Four people are expected to appear in court on Monday after the the Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) arrested them on drug charges following three separate raids on Friday. In the first instance, the EMPD discovered over 50 small bags of a drug called cat in a raid on a suspected drug dealer's house in Katlehong on Friday morning. EMPD spokesperson Wilfred Kgasago said the arrest was made after police received a tip-off from concerned community members. "Utilising the information received the Drug Enforcement Unit members acted swiftly by raiding the given address on Mlangeni Street in Katlehong North where 6 medium size ziplock [bags] and 52 small ziplock [bags] of cat valued at R13,400 where uncovered," said Kgasago in a statement. "The occupant of the house, a man aged 36, was immediately arrested." The suspect is expected to appear in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Following another tip-off, also on Friday, this time by community members in Tokoza, the EMPD Drug Enforcement Unit arrested two alleged drug dealers who were in procession of mandrax and cat. Kgasago said the street value of the drugs seized during the raid was estimated R2 520. Law enforcement arrested a 28 year-old woman and a 43 year-old man after they were found in possession of 24 mandrax tablets and 1 bag of cat. "In addition, the Drug Enforcement members confiscated cash amounting to R450 suspected to be proceeds from the illicit dealings," Kgasago said. Both suspects are expected to appear in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court on Monday. In their third raid of the day, the EMPD drug enforcement unit jumped into action and pounced on the house in Steenie Street, Nigel where 122 packets of nyaope, 1 ziplock bag of crystal methamphetamine and 246  grams of dagga were found. Kgasago said the street value of this haul was R7,700. The occupant of the house, a 30-year-old man, was arrested and charged with possession and dealing in narcotics. He is expected to appear in the Nigel Magistrate’s Court on Monday.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  