Andile Sithole PHOTO: andile sitholeAt the opening of Mount Edgecombe Interchange are (from left) Skhumbuzo Macozoma(Sanral CEO), Rob Haswell (Sanral board member), Blade Nzimande (Transport Minister), Sindisiwe Chikunga(Deputy Minister) and Lindy Madlala(Sanral board member). Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories TRANSPORT Minister Blade Nzimande warned motorists about excessive use of social media platforms while driving, saying this was the major cause of road fatalities in South Africa. Nzimande was speaking during the official opening of the Mount Edgecombe Interchange on Tuesday, October 30. Nzimande said the government was concerned about the increasing numbers of road accidents in the country. “We have noticed that the youth below the ages of 35 are involved in road accidents. Contributing factors include driving under the influence of alcohol and excessive use of social media [platforms],” Nzimande said. He urged motorists to refrain from these activities. At the event, Nzimande said that the national government was proud to open the interchange, that was built in conjunction with the provincial Department of Transport and eThekwini Municipality and National Department of Transport. He added: “This is such one of the fast growing places in our province. This interchange on the N2 Highway is en-route to the King Shaka International Airport. As government, we believe that the bridge will reduce traffic congestion.” Government spent R1.14 billion on the construction of the Mount Edgecombe Intersection. The new four-level interchange facility provides at least two lanes on each of the major movements. The upgrade also includes the implementation of directional ramps, eliminating the need for controlled signalisation, thus ensuring free flow of traffic in all directions. The long-awaited and much anticipated official opening of the interchange is aimed at relieving traffic congestion on the M41 and N2 during peak hours. Vehicles backing up on the M41 and onto the N2 will now become a feature of the past. Nzimande said the interchange was one of the longest structures ever built in South Africa. The world-class infrastructure commenced in April 2013 and was completed in July 2018, with the intersection becoming another construction achievement to be added to the list of iconic bridge structures undertaken in KwaZulu-Natal by the South African National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral).   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.