Nomfundo Xolo Members of the Enduduzweni Centre for the Disabled in Umlazi celebrated outside the Durban High Court on Tuesday after their electricity was reconnected. (Nomfundo Xolo , GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Liam Bradford,19, is an inmate at Boksburg prison's juvenile section. He is currently completing Grade 9 after his schooling came to an abrupt halt when he was sentenced to time in prison. Bradford dreams of becoming a neurosurgeon and helping disabled children. Watch.WATCH Members of the Enduduzweni Centre for the Disabled in Umlazi celebrated outside the High Court in Durban on Tuesday after their electricity had been reconnected following a court order against the KwaZulu-Natal department of social development and the eThekwini municipality. The centre had been without electricity for two weeks, with residents using fire to prepare meals, GroundUp reported. They say their training stipends from the department have also been terminated. With support from Abahlali BaseMjondolo and the Right to Know Campaign, the residents approached the Legal Resources Centre (LRC) for help getting the eThekwini municipality to reconnect electricity. READ: Court prevents Eskom from cutting off Musina's electricity The LRC's Thabiso Mbhense says the disconnection of power was another "eviction tactic" after about 40 of the residents in the centre were given retrenchment notices on October 11, 2018, during a year-long battle. The department says the centre was established as a training centre for people with disabilities to produce cane furniture, but this is no longer in operation. "They are taking advantage of the disabled people. It is a clear indication that the municipality and the department of social development want these people out. We will not let them further manipulate the disabled people of Enduduzweni," says Mbhense. Mbhense says after the municipality and the department of social development had been served with the court order, the electricity was reconnected on Monday. Making way for 'greedy politicians' The LRC then withdrew the case and filed a new application to address the termination of the residents' stipends. Themba Shiba, leader of African Nduduzweni Organisation for the Disabled, which represents the residents, says they have been mistreated for years by the municipality and the department of social development. "But this is the last time they get away with it. We have taken a firm stand also using the law. Now that electricity is back, we demand the return of our stipends until March 2019 as agreed. They have at least seven days to respond to this order," he explained. ALSO READ: Businesswoman arrested for illegal electricity connection Shiba says although difficult, regaining ownership of the centre is a necessary battle. "We will not be removed from the centre that has become our safe haven for years to make way for greedy politicians that want to discard us like we are useless in the community." There had been no response to requests for comment from the municipality or the department by the time of publication.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  