Ntwaagae Seleka iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Sentencing procedures against a convicted serial rapist and taxi driver were postponed again in the Roodepoort Regional Court on Tuesday. Lebogang Gift Mokoena, who is currently serving 13 life sentences and 340 additional years in jail, was expected to be sentenced on a charge of kidnapping, one of rape and two of robbery with aggravating circumstances. On September 19 Magistrate Ruby Matthys convicted him on all four charges after he pleaded guilty to the offences. On March 19, 2017, Mokoena and his friend accosted a female passenger who was with her teenage son along Ontdekkers Road in Florida, west of Johannesburg. READ: Taxi serial rapist given 13 life sentences The two passengers had boarded a Toyota Quantum minibus taxi driven by the two men. Inside the taxi Mokoena produced a cigarette lighter which resembled a firearm and pointed it at the woman. He then raped her in the presence of her son inside the vehicle while his friend drove. Brother to testify in mitigation of sentence After raping the woman, Mokoena robbed the victims of their belongings and demanded the pin code to the woman's bank card before letting them out of the vehicle. The accused then used over R19 000 taken from the victim's bank account to buy alcohol and groceries, among other things. Matthys postponed the case against Mokoena to December 11 after he told the court that he wanted his brother to testify in mitigation of his sentence. Mokoena also changed his tune and asked for a social worker to help him compile his pre-sentencing report. This after he refused to cooperate with a social worker who had been assigned to assist him last month. He told the social worker during consultation that he didn't want to waste the court's time and that he understood that the charges against him were serious. READ: Taxi driver serial rapist deserves 'harshest sentence', defence argues During Mokoena's sentencing last week Thursday in the South Gauteng High Court sitting in Palm Ridge, Acting Judge Cassim Moosa said rape is a crime that not only violates the body of the complainant but also vexes the soul. 'Propensity for violence towards women' Mokoena carried out his reign of terror over a period of 13 months between September 26, 2016, and October 12, 2017. He was apprehended by the police at a house in Molapo, Soweto, on October 23, 2017. "Sexual abuse of women and children continues unabated, the picture looks even gloomier now. The public is outraged by this growing scourge and there is growing pressure on the court to impose harsher sentences," said Moosa. READ: Taxi driver convicted on 43 charges of rape and kidnapping to be sentenced The court also found that Mokoena admitted that the victims could contract diseases or fall pregnant through his reckless conduct when he raped them without protection. "Evidence shows the accused has a propensity for violence towards women. "The accused subjected the victims to dire consequences had they not sought medical attention at the first opportunity," Moosa explained. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  