Jenny Raven (49) graduated from her master’s in advanced clinical practice on the same day as husband Steve (48) and son Oliver (23), who both picked up their degrees in paramedic science at the University of Worcester. The family from Hereford, England, were delighted to all throw their caps on the same day when collecting their certificates at Worcester Cathedral earlier this month. “To graduate together is really special and a unique opportunity, one that I think is rare to do,” Jenny said. “As a parent I’d have been at the graduation for Oliver anyway as a proud mom, but to also know I was there as a proud wife and celebrating my own achievement as well is fantastic.” The mom of two, who works full time as an occupational therapist, studied her masters part time. Steve, who previously worked as a teacher, decided he wanted a change in career so decided to rejoin Worcester University at the same time as his son. “I was at Worcester 20 years ago doing a teaching degree and was impressed with it then, so to come back to Worcester with all the changes have proved it’s still a great place to learn,” he said. “You’ve got to have pride in the fact that your family is achieving something. “It’s never too late to change or advance yourself.” Oliver, who lives in the English town of Dudley, said he was happy to be able to achieve his education goals alongside his parents. “The day itself was special,” Oliver said. “To share that moment with your family is special for anyone but the fact that mom and dad were both receiving awards too made it even better. “We understood one another’s stresses and were able to be supportive, even providing little boosts of chocolate now and then.”  Jenny now plans to continue with the research she was completing during her master’s while remaining in her job. Oliver and Steve now occasionally work alongside each other as they’re both full-time paramedics for West Midlands Ambulance Service. “He started the job after me, so I do like to tease him by telling him he was inspired by me,” Oliver joked. “I’m sure he aspires to be as good as me one day.” “I’m proud of Ollie, and I’m proud of Steve for changing careers. He’s made a change and he loves it,” Jenny said. Source: Magazine Features 