Omega Ngema PHOTOS: SUPPLIEDEmmanuel Mthokozisi Shabane (left) and Siphosakhe Sabelo Mbiko (right) were on their way back to the South Coast from a weekend at home when the fatal accident occurred. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories COLLEAGUES and relatives of the two male nurses from eNtabeni Clinic in KwaNzimakwe (Ugu District,) who were tragically killed in a car accident on Friday night are still reeling in shock at their sudden deaths. Emmanuel Mthokozisi Shabane (31) had accompanied his colleague Siphosakhe Sabelo Mbiko (34) to his home in Bizana when their vehicle allegedly hit the roadside rails and lost control at Ntlakwe, near the St Patrick Hospital, in the Eastern Cape. Both vehicle occupants died on the scene. The pair were on their way back home as Mbiko was due to be on duty at the clinic the next day. Shabane and Mbiko both joined eNtabeni clinic in the south of KZN in 2015 after accepting transfers from St George’s Hospital and King Edward Hospital respectively. Gcino Dlamini, a colleague from the clinic, said she was still at a loss for words at the death of the two men. “As I look at their empty desks right now it is still hard to believe that they are gone. We worked very well together; they were like brothers to me. Truly it is a huge loss for us as a family and institution,” said Dlamini. “As eNtabeni clinic, we would like to say we are very thankful for their lives and service with us. They were both hard-working employees who loved their jobs. We will always love and remember them. We extend our condolences to their families,” said Sister Nokulunga Khuzwayo from the Clinic. Shabane, who is survived by three brothers and his mother, had plans to study law next year, said his brother Mfanufikile. “He was a quiet, soft-spoken person. He was never married and did not yet have any children, so his first passion was his job and then athletics. He loved running and every morning he would go for a run before work,” said Mfanufikile. KZN Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo extended his condolences to the grieving families. “We are deeply saddened by the sudden and unexpected death of these two healthcare professionals. It is always a sad day when we lose our colleagues in this manner. Both of them were still very young, in their early 30s, so a lot was still expected from them. “We pray that their souls rest in peace, and that the Lord Almighty grants their families and colleagues all the strength that they will need at this difficult time,” he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  