Mahlohonolo Magadla Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Provincial Organised Crime Unit and Narcotics Unit has arrested three suspects after busting a drug den at a smallholding in Randfontein, Gauteng. According to the South African Police Service (SAPS), in the early hours of Wednesday morning, a search was executed at the building where drug manufacturing equipment, chemicals and drugs were recovered by the police. Pictures of the drug den were also posted on the SAPS Twitter page, where a number of substances and equipment can be seen. Speaking to DRUM, spokesperson of the Randfontein police station, Constable Carmen Heindrich, said that they could not provide additional information as a forensic investigation was still being conducted. “We cannot give any more information... as we are still conducting a forensic investigation,” she said. During a visit to the University of Zululand in September, Police minister, Bheki Cele, expressed his concerns over the high rate of drug use in South Africa and also said that dagga was a gateway drug following the Constitutional court’s ruling on legalising dagga. “Everyone starts with dagga, then mandrax and then coke (cocaine), which means now everyone is on the same path to start drugs," “As I'm standing here, some few hours ago we had a judgment from the ConCourt that allowed you to smoke dagga. Well, I haven't read it, I'm just told what it entails, but it doesn't entail you working with lots and lots of dagga. But if the judge had asked me, I would have said, no dagga smoking," he continued. Read more: Dagga smoking an entry point to more serious drugs - Cele #sapsHQ Breaking: Major #DrugLabBust at a smallholding in Randfontein. Provincial Organised Crime Unit & Narcotics Unit this am executed a search warrant at the premises. Drug manufacturing equipment, chemicals & drugs recovered. 3 Arrested. ME pic.twitter.com/i5kkeYWzsG    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  