Byrone Athman PHOTO: sourced Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories AFTER experiencing what she described as one of the most traumatising moments of her life, a 73-year-old woman, who wished to remain anonymous, wants to thank all those involved in helping her in her time of need. The day began as usual for the retired pensioner at her New England Road home as she hung up the washing on November 2. Her morning routine then took a twist when she was rushed by two men who forced their way into the home behind her as she tried to enter her home. “As soon as I walked into the house they rushed me and took me to one of the rooms and wrapped my head in towels. They tried to force something down my mouth to keep me quiet,” said the evidently distraught woman who added that one man waited with her in the room while the other, who had a gun, ransacked the house for valuables. The woman said that all the while she was tied up and blindfolded she kept praying, even though the man swore at her for doing so. While tied up, she said that her body started to violently shake, which prompted the man to loosen her hands a bit and this helped her to break free. “I managed to untie my hands after hours and then removed the towels from my head when I thought no one was in the room. I then heard God speaking to me and saying there was no one there and then I made a run for it,” said the pensioner, who noticed that all her goods were tied up in bin bags in the kitchen waiting to be moved. She then ran onto the road and tried to flag down the first car she saw, which was a green golf with three women in it. “They stopped immediately asked me what happened and without a thought I asked them to drive me to my pastor’s house. I was frantic and traumatised when I got to my pastor’s house and needed to be calmed and counselled,” said the woman, who waited at her pastor’s house until the police and her son were able to take her back home. Thankful for the help she received by all those involved, the pensioner said it brought her a great sense of relief to note in her time of need that people were so willing to help and bring her comfort. “All those involved in the process were so helpful to me and I am so thankful for everyone. From the women who drove me to my pastor and saw to me, to the police who actually calmed me down and prayed for me. I am still shaken up to this day over what happened but am thankful to know that there are good people in this world.” Police have confirmed that a case of robbery is under investigation as the woman said that her cellphone, bank cards, tablet and car keys were stolen, leading her to believe that the men may be back to finish off the job. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  