Thandi Setokoe Thandi Setokoe, Rory Andrews and Neill Kemp with their e-bikes in the beautiful St George’s Park. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories IT feels like being a kid again, and I must say, for someone who has not been on a bicycle in roughly 19 years, I did pretty well. Sure I did get the odd, one or two bruises, but I would definitely do it all again. Are you also a nature lover and looking for a unique way to explore the Friendly City, without having to break a sweat? If so, then an electric-bike (e-bike) tour is definitely a must. An e-bike is just like a regular bicycle – only better. It has several technical components such as a battery, phone apps and heart rate monitors, to name a few. These electrical components surely did make my ride smoother, as they made obstacles like rocky uphills manageable which allowed me to ride at ease. According to Neill Kemp, founder of E-bike Adventures, e-bike usage has grown at a rapid rate since its introduction into South Africa a few years ago. “When my father bought one, he was really excited that he would now be able to ride with my brother and me because the bicycle would enable him to keep up with us,” said Kemp. Kemp, who has always had a passion for cycling, described that the inspiration behind E-bike Aventures was to get more people outdoors, enjoying the beautiful city and all the different trails. “Very few people are riding these trails, unless there are events taking place, and that needs to change. We are now opening up the opportunity for everyone,” he said. Not to worry, even if you’re not the avid cyclist (like me), you would still be able to enjoy the activity because it’s for all fitness levels. Pre-ride training is, however, advisable for people who have never cycled before. “One does not need to be super fit to go on an e-bike, but you must at least have some cycling experience. “So people can book for an hour session or two, just to get one familiarised with the route,” said Kemp. The E-bike Adventures tours are also customised to the specific needs of the client and each bike is adjusted according to one’s height and level of fitness to ensure an enjoyable experience. Children are also more than welcome as long as they are taller than 1.5m and can ride a bike. “A parent or guardian will have to sign an indemnity form and consent for them,” said Kemp. The tours include three routes: Baakens Valley, Crossways and Tsitsikamma. “Custom trips can be quoted for the clients as well as custom trails for the more experienced mountain bikers. Corporate packages are also available at Crossways. “The Crossway routes are also adaptable – we can make the route shorter and easier for people who feel that they don’t want to do extreme mountain biking. At the end of the day the whole idea behind these rides is for enjoyment, it’s not a race to the end,” said Kemp. The specialised bike tours are as follows (minimum two people and a maximum of five): Starting and ending in the parking lot of Bridge Street Brewery in the beautiful Brickmakers Kloof, the trail is about 24km (2-3 hours) long. Package is R700 per person. Includes helmet, gloves and refreshments. Must have some mountain bike or cycling experience. Moderate. Starting and ending at Crossways farm village, the trail is 28km long (2-3 hours) and has 600m of climbing. Package is R1 000 per person. Includes helmet, gloves, refreshments and transfer from pick up point and back. Must have some mountain bike or cycling experience. Moderate. The Storms River Village mountain biking route is 25km long (2-3 hours) with about 500m of climbing. Package is R1 700 per person. Includes helmet, gloves and refreshments and transfer from pick up point and back. Must have some cycling experience. Easy. What to wear: You need to wear comfortable clothing and comfortable shoes or takkies. No loose long pants that can get stuck in the chain. Package prices R700 per person (2-3 hours, 24km). R1 000 per person (2 to 3 hours, 28km) R1700 per person (2-3 hours, 25km) More detail of the routes in the story. . For bookings or more info, visit www.ebikeadventuressa.co.za. V
 Watch a video of our tour of the Baakens on an e-bike on Facebook: PE Express   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.