Correspondent A reward of up to R100 000 is being offered by police for information that would help to apprehend a gang who shot and robbed a number of doctors at two Limpopo hospitals. "The provincial commissioner, Lieutenant General Nneke Ledwaba, has already put into action the 72-hour action plan to hunt down these criminals," spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojalefa said in a statement. In the most recent incident, seven robbers went to the Lebowakgomo Hospital on Saturday at approximately midnight and "broke into the doctors' residence and robbed them of money, cellphones and a laptop". Previously, in the early hours of Thursday morning, three doctors at Letaba Hospital in Tzaneen were attacked by a group of five men. While according to police one was shot and injured and the other struck with a hard object, previously the provincial department of health said on its Twitter account that all three were shot. The doctors were also robbed of money, cellphones, televisions and laptops. The suspects gained entry in both cases by breaking concrete bars of fencing surrounding the doctors' residences on the hospital property. Suspects 'fled to the mountains' Mojapelo said that in a separate incident a robber, who had committed a business robbery at the Manganeng Clinic in Ga-Sekhukhune on Saturday, was shot and killed by the police during a car chase. Another suspect, 27, involved in the same case was arrested on Sunday afternoon, said Mojapelo. He was arrested when he attempted to open a false case of car hijacking at Jane Furse police station. "Preliminary police investigations soon revealed he was the driver of the vehicle whose occupants committed the two robberies," Mojapelo said. He will appear in the Sekhukhuni magistrate's court on charges of business robbery. In this incident, a security officer at the clinic was allegedly accosted by two suspects. She was robbed of a pistol before the group fled in a car and robbed a nearby tuckshop of cellphones and cash. Police were notified of the incident and soon spotted the vehicle, and a car chase ensued. "The suspects abandoned the car and ran towards the mountain on foot and in the process, started shooting towards the police who responded by fatally injuring one of the suspects." A firearm with the serial number filed off was found in the vicinity. The cellphones stolen from the tuckshop were also recovered in the abandoned car. Mojapelo said anyone with information on the outstanding suspects and any other suspect is requested to contact Brigadier James Esbach on 0825760743 or Captain Richard Boshomane on 0798945501.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  