Riaan Grobler The picture of the dog hanging from a car window.  (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A picture of a man seemingly holding a dog by its leg from a car window has social media users hot under the collar. People reacted with fury after the picture was posted on the Port Elizabeth Community Facebook page on Wednesday. It was also widely shared on WhatsApp groups. Facebook comments about the incident were rife with condemnation, with many calling for the arrest of the man for animal cruelty. "This makes my blood boil!" Gaynor Bishop commented. "I hope to God he's been located and that any animals that this rubbish owns have been safely removed. What a despicable piece of rotten scum." Case opened "Is this for real? …absolute (sic) disgusting," Shirley Zietsman commented. Police spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu said in a statement that the person who took the picture and posted it on Facebook has come forward. "He managed to drive alongside the driver and enquired what was happening. The driver alleged that the dog jumped through the open window. He advised the driver to put the dog in the back of the car of which the owner obliged. There was another dog in the car," Naidu said. She added that no-one has been charged. "The docket was sent to the Senior Public Prosecutor for a decision," she added. 'Dog is fine' Hannes Stander, the manager of the Animal Welfare Society in Port Elizabeth, told News24 that the driver of the car made a statement about the incident. "We've been to [the man's house] on three occasions to make sure the dog was not injured in any way but the dog is fine," Stander said. The man also made a statement to police, Stander said. "Now it's up to the police to investigate and for the law to run its course. We can't jeopardise the investigation by getting more involved now." Dog jumped According to Stander, the man claimed the dog jumped from the car and he caught it at the exact moment the picture was taken. The man was transporting the dog after picking it up after it had run away from his home, he claimed. Stander said the animals on the man's property, which include a Dachshund, were in a good condition and did not appear to be abused in any way. "There has been an outcry in the community, though," Stander said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  