Riaan Grobler Black Friday. (file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Following snaking traffic, queues of people and rumours of a stampede on Black Friday in Durban last year, private security company Rescue Care has said that it is ready for the increased fanfare surrounding Black Friday shopping specials on Friday. - Follow the Black Friday live update "Given that local shopping centres will likely be flooded with people seeking out festive season specials, we will deploy our staff and vehicles strategically to deal with any eventuality," the company said in a statement. "We have previously responded to incidents on Black Friday and there have, in the past, been reports of stampedes at malls. We wish everyone a safe and fruitful shopping experience." Last year, News24 reported that there had been rumours of a stampede at The Pavilion mall in Durban. Paramedics and management at the mall denied claims - which spread on social media - about a stampede at the mall’s Checkers Hyper outlet. Officials, who asked not to be named, said there were no injuries during the shopping frenzy to take advantage of discounted prices. The line of cars to the mall stretched as far as the N3 off-ramp. The mall is alongside the highway. Queues of people and trolleys spilled into the basement parking, making it difficult to find a free spot. Byron Govender, a father of two, said despite hating malls and Black Friday, he could not pass up the opportunity to find a bargain. "The rich people don't have to worry, because they can shop at any time. But we need bargains, you see. I just want to sort my family out and have a happy year end." Prince Ngidi said he had never shopped at the mall before. "I don't like coming and shopping. What can we do? We want to help the family. I need to save." Another shopper, Jocelyn Naidoo, said she loved the hype around Black Friday. "For me, it is fun. I love getting bargains and I enjoy the mall atmosphere." In Cape Town, security officials had their hands full last year as scores of shoppers broke glass, damaged security monitors and fought each other for the best Black Friday deals. At Canal Walk Shopping Centre in Century City, Cape Town, additional private security officials were deployed after shoppers forced their way into a Game store, damaging the store's entrance and security monitors. At Eastgate Shopping Centre in Johannesburg, a scuffle broke out between a frustrated shopper and private security officials. It remains to be seen how the Black Friday frenzy will play out this year. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  