Correspondent (Photo: iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A farmer was doused with petrol and almost set alight in the Potchefstroom area on Wednesday morning, Netwerk24 reported. The farmer was reportedly attacked by five men at around 05:00. They allegedly plundered his house and stole R110 000 and a hunting rifle from his safe. Marius Muller, national operations co-ordinator of AfriForum, told Netwerk24 that they then doused the man with petrol and took him into a room, where they threatened to set him alight. The farmer reportedly kept a pistol under the bed and managed to fight off the attackers. The attackers fled after setting the man's house on fire. Police could not provide details of the attack to Netwerk24. Rural safety strategy Rural safety was set to be discussed on Wednesday at Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Police's public hearing into the police's current rural safety strategy, News24 reported. Some of the organisations that were invited to give input to the committee are African Farmers' Association of Southern Africa, AgriSA, SA National Civic Organisation and the Congress of SA Trade Unions. "The maximum participation of civil society and organised labour is vital to ensure a vibrant and effective rural safety strategy," said committee chair Francois Beukman. The purpose of the hearing is to evaluate the police's current rural safety strategy and determine whether more resources should be allocated to priority stations. "Communities in rural and deep rural areas should be the eyes and ears of the law enforcement agencies to ensure that violent and contact crime is brought down," said Beukman. The involvement and challenges of communities in Community Policing Forums and Safety Forums was also set to be discussed. According to the latest crime statistics, South Africa's murder rate increased by 6.9% from the previous year. In real numbers, this means that a total of 20 336 people were murdered in South Africa during the past year, 1 320 more than in the previous year. Sixty-two of these were categorised as farm murders: 12 in Gauteng, nine each in Limpopo and the North West, eight each in Mpumalanga and the Free State, seven in KwaZulu-Natal, and three each in the Eastern Cape, Northern Cape and Western Cape. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  