Correspondent Mayor of Johannesburg Herman Mashaba. (Cornel van Heerden, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Joburg (COJ) council has approved a report authorising the City manager to enter settlement negotiations with Regiments Fund Managers to terminate the City's relationship with the institution, which has been linked to the state capture project. Executive mayor Herman Mashaba said in a statement that the City sought to end its relationship with the fund managers on the grounds of negative publicity around Regiments emanating from the February 11 article alleging links between Regiments and Gupta-linked Trillian, "in particular Regiment's close association with the allegations on state capture, which impacts on the reputation and integrity of the COJ". Mashaba also cited failure by Regiments to honour the full redemption payments that were due to the COJ on June 5; failure by Regiments to timeously advise the City that Denel would not be in a financial position to meet its obligations in respect of the unsecured loan amounting to R290m that initially matured on June 10; and failure by Regiments to ensure that all fees and commissions received as a consequence of the Sinking Fund transactions and which were for the benefit of the COJ Sinking Fund, were deposited into the Sinking Fund bank accounts. Relationship terminated "In the interests of a swift end to our relationship with Regiments, the City will seek to terminate its relationship with the fund managers via mutual agreement. It is our hope that this agreement can be finalised within the coming weeks," Mashaba said. "As part of the City's investment structure, the City utilises a sinking fund to pay back inherited debts and investments made to the City, amounting to over R18bn." Regiment's handling of residents' hard-earned money was of serious concern to the City, Mashaba added. "Since coming into office, the multi-party coalition government has committed itself to ridding the City of rampant corruption which was allowed to fester within the City. "As a result, the City has appointed an external independent firm of attorneys to conduct a comprehensive forensic investigation into the sinking fund." According to Mashaba, the scope of the investigation, covering the period 2005 to date, includes: Investigation outcome 'soon' "Already, significant progress has been made with the forensic investigation and the outcome is expected soon," Mashaba said. The mayor stated that it is expected that the investigation will expose senior members of the former administration, "whose actions not only robbed the residents of this City, but ultimately aided the nefarious state capture project which has paralysed government at a national level". "I will continue to ensure that residents of this City grow in their confidence for the multi-party government to lead ethically, putting the needs of the residents first," Mashaba said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  