Tammy Petersen Colin Booysen (Photo: Peter Abrahams/Son) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An arrest warrant has been issued for underworld figure Colin Booysen, the Cape Town Regional Court heard on Wednesday, as he appeared in court for a separate trial. Booysen - along with Nafiz Modack, Ashley Fields and Jacques Cronje - are currently on trial for a string of charges, ranging from extortion to money laundering, in relation to an alleged extortion racket which targeted the nightclub and restaurant security industry in Cape Town. They were in court on Wednesday when the magistrate was informed of the arrest warrant issued in a separate murder case. According to Booysen's attorney Bruce Hendricks, the warrant related to his failure to report to the Belhar police station on Monday in line with his bail conditions. His two bodyguards were arrested outside the court earlier. Inside and outside of the courtroom, police officers in bulletproof vests were seen during an adjournment. Booysen remained in the courtroom. Booysen is the brother of alleged Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen. Last month, he was granted bail of R10 000 in the Bellville Magistrate's Court. He and his co-accused Vuyisane Macingwane and Kalvin Abels - his bodyguards - were arrested following the murder of Adrian Pietersen, who died in a shootout during an argument with Booysen in Belhar on September 28. Macingwane and Abels were granted R5 000 bail each. Magistrate Byron Pedro was unimpressed by the disruption to the trial and adjourned briefly. The matter was then discussed in chambers. Prior to the arrival of the officers, the State's first witness Radley Dijkers, brand manager of The Grand Café, testified about a meeting with Modack and Cronje, which took place days after he and group manager Stuart Bailey were ostensibly strong-armed to pay R90 000 for security at a summer event on November 4. This after the two managed to renegotiate after Modack allegedly demanded R150 000 for 80 bouncers on the night. They paid R90 000 instead. Bailey later laid criminal charges of extortion and intimidation against the four. Early last year, a delegation in a convoy of cars arrived at the establishment and informed Dijkers that security services would be taken over by TSG - a security company that he was informed was owned by Booysen. The Grand Café never signed a contract or received a quote. Dijkers says he and a majority shareholder had met with Modack and Cronje. Modack arrived only after Dijkers confirmed to Cronje that he hadn't been the one to lay the criminal charges. The duo had about 15 men with them. Modack asked who had made the cases against them and he confirmed it had been Bailey, Dijkers testified. He told Modack Bailey had been banned from the establishment because he feared the alleged kingpin would come looking for him there. The shareholder had told Modack she was happy with the service they had been giving them and that they would not be changing security companies. "We didn't want any trouble," Dijkers said. He contacted a captain in the police's gang unit shortly to find out more about the case that was opened. The officer had asked him to give her the security footage of a meeting which took place the night they were forced to cough up the R90 000. Afraid that Modack would find out about him contacting the authorities, Dijkers said he phoned him and told him that the police had wanted the videos as evidence. Modack referred Dijkers to a "friend" – an advocate – who Dijkers spoke to before deciding not to hand over the footage. On November 11, Modack phoned Dijkers twice. Dijkers had been unaware that Modack had recorded the calls. Two audio clips were played in court on Wednesday. In one recording Modack is heard asking Dijkers if he or Colin Booysen had tried to threaten, intimidate or extort him in any manner. Dijkers replies: "No, no, that's what I told Leon yesterday…. There was no intimidation or anything like that at all." Leon is the advocate Modack had referred him to. Dijkers is then heard saying to Modack that an arrangement was made and "you guys" said the costs were higher than anticipated. Modack replies that that was "normal business". Dijkers testified that he had said this because he was fearful of what would happen to him if he didn't agree. Modack called him again a few minutes later, and during the conversation said there were claims that there had been guns present at the time of the meeting. Dijkers told Modack that he hadn't said this, and confirmed to the court no guns had been brandished when they met with the five. "I want to say that during his call I was being a coward. I didn't say I felt intimidated and threatened at the meeting, I told him what I thought he wanted to hear." Prior to his testimony, Dijkers was warned of his right to not incriminate himself after he on Tuesday alluded to trying to conceal a crime by telling Bailey laying the charges had been a "terrible mistake". He could face numerous charges, including attempting to defeat the ends of justice and money laundering. Dijkers nevertheless testified, and may be granted immunity from prosecution by the magistrate as a Section 204 witness should Pedro be satisfied that he testified frankly and honestly. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  