Siphelele Nketo PHOTO: siphelele nketo(From left) Deputy principal Toto Madikane with matric pupils Siyasanga Estrice, Aphiwe Gushu, Khuselwa Mbasane, Yamkela Mpetshwa, Elihle Mpiti, and tourism teacher Loyiso Bavuma. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories MATRICS across the country have started writing their final exams. A Fever reporter visited matrics at Shayamoya Secondary School to meet some of the pupils during this important time. Aphiwe Gushu, Siyasanga Estrice, Khuselwa Mbasane, Yamkela Mpetshwa and Elihle Mpitidisplayed confidence and eagerness in writing their final exams. They said Grade 12 has been very demanding for them but, to cope with the pressure, study groups and extra classes have helped. “I have been doing well throughout the year and I am confident that I will also do well in the final exams,” said Siyasanga. Aphiwe said she had done well at the trial exams, while Khuselwa and Yamkela said 2018 was a tough year in their academic studies. Yamkela said he wants to study law next year. Shayamoya Secondary is one of the local schools in Kokstad with the highest number of matrics. In 2017, the school had a total of 195 matrics and it obtained a pass rate of 84.5% in the final matric results. Deputy principal Toto Madikane said 279 matrics are sitting for their final exams and the school had done everything to make sure that it gets a 100% pass rate. He said, during the first term, matric performance was very low, and in the second term it picked up to 67%. During trial exams, it was promising at 78%. “Pupils are promising to do well when they write final exams. The school had conducted morning classes, weekend classes and critical subjects were given more attention. Earlier this month, matric pupils were camping on the school premises and they intend to stay there until they write the last paper,” said Madikane. Madikane said the school has 2 046 pupils with a limited number of teachers. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  