Christina Pitt Emergency vehicles outside the basement parking at the V&A Waterfront where a fire broke out. (Marelise van der Merwe, Fin24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The V&A Waterfront is partially open for business, a day after a suspected electrical fault caused a fire that resulted in an evacuation, the mall's management said on Thursday. Spokesperson Donald Kau said major outlets in the Victoria Wharf mall were operational. However, smaller stores remained closed until further notice. "Major brands like Woolworths and Pick n Pay are open. The food court and the play area are also open," he told News24. "We are hoping to be fully operational by tomorrow." READ: Electrical fault suspected in V&A Waterfront fire Pick n Pay spokesperson Janine Caradonna confirmed that the V&A store was trading as normal. "The V&A Waterfront Twitter page is updating visitors on which stores are open and trading as usual," she said. She also clarified that the fire had not started in the Pick n Pay basement, but in the mall's basement parking near to the store. The blaze broke out at around 18:00 in the mall's basement after an electrical transformer was set alight. Kau said the electrical faults were being repaired and electricity would be restored to the entire building. A worker at one of the mall shops, who did not want to be named, told News24 on Wednesday evening: "The security ushered us out of the mall after the lights went off. We were not told what happened." "This one woman was still shopping. I had to tell her to drop her goods and leave the store. I had to grab her basket," said another worker. UPDATE: Trading is still limited at our Vic Wharf mall today. We will keep you informed as we get back to full trading. PnP, Woolies, H&M and Food Court trading normally.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  