Siphelele Nketo Still standing, Kokstad College boys’ football team players after losing thefinals.PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ATHENKOSI “Ice-T” Sirayi, from Kokstad College, was awarded a trophy for being a top goal scorer after scoring three goals in five games at a football tournament held in Kokstad recently. The tournament, played for the first time in Kokstad, aimed to nurture young footballers and to close the gap between girls and boys in the sport. Participating schools included Kokstad College, Ixopo High School, St Patrick’s College, Focused High School, Mount Currie Secondary School, King Edward High School, Shayamoya Secondary School and Bergview College. In the girls’ competition, Kokstad College got six points but failed to make it to the finals, which saw Ixopo High and Mount Currie Secondary School battling it out for the title. Ixopo High ultimately defeated Mount Currie Secondary 3-1 to be crowned victorious. Eight boys’ teams competed in the tournament. In the first group, Ixopo High scored nine points, Kokstad College four, Focused High School four and St Patrick’s College none. In the second group, Shayamoya Secondary School had seven points, Bergview College four, King Edward High School three and Mount Currie Secondary School three. The results saw Ixopo High and Bergview College, from Matatiele, facing each other in the first boys’ semi-final with the game ending 0-0. During the penalty shoot-out, Bergview College won. In the second semi-final, Kokstad College won a well-fought game against Shayamoya Secondary School on penalties. Kokstad College played against Bergview College in the final and they played to a 0-0 score. As a result, the teams had to be sent straight to penalties. Bergview College defeated Kokstad College 3-2 on penalties. Trophies and medals were awarded to teams. Qhamani Ludidi, who organised the tournament, thanked stakeholders and the schools for their participation. “I want to invite more schools to participate in the tournament next year,” he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  