Tammy Petersen JP Smith. (Peter Abrahams, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre, expressing exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. Watch.WATCH The City of Cape Town has resolved to probe the appointment of its director for policing and law enforcement, Robbie Robberts. A special confidential council meeting was held on Tuesday behind closed doors, where disciplinary regulations relating to senior managers were on the agenda. This is understood to have been related to alleged misconduct by executive director of safety and security Richard Bosman regarding the appointment of Robberts. Following the meeting, ANC caucus leader Xolani Sotashe said a complaint had been received by the city manager from a member of the public about "serious allegations" against Bosman and his role in the appointment. He claimed to have correspondence in which Bosman ostensibly says that taking the position to the mayoral committee is "just a formality". Sotashe, however, would not provide the media with the emails, saying they would be revealed "soon". JP Smith 'mentioned' in correspondence "Today we resolved, without even voting, that… within seven days, the city manager must appoint an independent investigation team to investigate these allegations and report to council during [next year's] January meeting." According to Sotashe, mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith had also been mentioned in the correspondence in question, but the ANC lost during a vote in council recommending that Smith be brought before a disciplinary committee. Smith on Tuesday told News24 he welcomed the investigation as it would allow Bosman to "clear his name and finally put to bed this scurrilous bit of rumour mongering and racism by the ANC". He said the City had previously investigated the allegations which he said were "without substance". "It will be investigated again now. I have zero input in the appointment process. Bosman has previously given a detailed outline of the process," Smith said. "The job was advertised three times before being filled. Lawyers in council gave him the all-clear." Smith said he could not be investigated as he had "nothing to do with recruitment and selection processes". "It's not within my powers." Neither Bosman nor Robberts could immediately be reached for comment on Tuesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  