Jan Gerber On the eve of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee's discussion on its recommendations regarding the amendment of the Constitution, the DA says it "reserves all of its rights" and will make recommendations "under protest". At a chaotic meeting last week, the review committee gave parties until 16:00 on Monday to provide the committee with their written recommendations on whether section 25 should be reviewed to allow for expropriation without compensation. The ANC, EFF and UDM, who all support a constitutional amendment, were ready to proceed with their recommendations last Thursday, but the DA, FF Plus and Cope, who oppose an amendment, were not. The matter was then postponed. In its submission, which News24 has seen, the DA states "categorically that these observations and recommendations are made under protest". "The draft report in which these recommendations and observations are to appear should not be considered yet as the constituent parts of the report are yet to be finalised. "The Democratic Alliance reserves all of its rights with regard to this draft report, and the making of recommendations under these circumstances should not be construed under any circumstances as acquiescence, approval or consent of the errors in procedure that have been wilfully committed by the committee and some of its members," reads the DA's submission on its recommendations. Procedural concerns The party's major bone of contention is that the committee has not received a final report on the thousands of written submissions from Parliament. "Thus, the final committee report should not be considered until the committee receives the report on the written submissions. To date, no such report has been received, and no presentation in this regard has been made to the committee. In fact, the committee has not engaged, meaningfully or at all, with the contents of the written submissions." The party has other procedural concerns as well, chief among them that the high-level panel on key legislation – which was led by former president Kgalema Motlanthe and made damning findings of government's land reform programme – and the surveyor general weren't consulted. Thus the report should only be finalised after the committee has engaged meaningfully with the high-level panel report. Procedural matters aren't the only flashpoint expected in Tuesday and Wednesday's meetings as the three biggest parties differ substantially in their recommendations. While the ANC and EFF agree that the Constitution should be amended to allow expropriation without compensation, they differ substantially on the form of this amendment, as City Press reported on Sunday. The DA is altogether opposed to an amendment. The main points of the three biggest parties' recommendations are as follows: ANC EFF DA  What next: As things stand, the Joint Constitutional Review Committee will meet to discuss the recommendations on Tuesday and Wednesday, before adopting its report. This report will then be tabled in the National Assembly. If the National Assembly adopts the report, which seems likely given the ANC's majority, the matter will be referred to another committee, the Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services or an ad hoc committee, to draft the proposed amendments. This process would also require a public participation process. These proposed amendments must be adopted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly and six of the nine provinces in the National Council of Provinces. It seems highly unlikely that such a process will be concluded before next year's elections, and new a Parliament replaces the current one. Tuesday's meeting starts at 14:00. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  