Ntwaagae Seleka Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Matriculants who were caught allegedly cheating on their geography paper 1 exam earlier this month will have to rewrite the subject on Thursday. Gauteng department of education spokesperson Steve Mabona said the principal of Mpontsheng Secondary School in Katlehong, East Rand, where the incident took place, has since been placed on precautionary transfer to the district office. The principal walked into a matric examination centre and allegedly gave pupils answers to the paper. READ: Matric exam scandal hits Gauteng "The incident was reported to Umalusi and the principal was immediately removed as invigilator and subsequently placed on precautionary transfer," said Mabona. He said the examination process was smooth except for the cheating incident. The National Senior Certificate examinations are expected to conclude tomorrow with agricultural management practices at 09:00 and design at 14:00. Results to be announced on January 3 About 107 258 full-time and 43 061 part-time pupils across Gauteng successfully participated in the examinations which began on October 22. "This is a slight increase by 229 candidates as compared to the number of candidates in 2017. Learners wrote a total of 147 Grade 12 examination papers in 1004 centres across 15 Gauteng districts. "All our marking centres are geared and ready to commence on December 1. Marking will be concluded by the 15 December We wish all 9509 appointed markers well during this period of marking," he said. READ:2018 matric exams will be one of firsts Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga will release the 2018 matric examination results on January 3. However, pupils will be able to access their results from January 4 at their schools and or examination centres. Mabona advised pupils who might be suffering from exam anxiety to contact Childline. "We wish all our learners the very best of luck and success, and with all the hard work they have put in, we trust that they will make themselves, their families and the department very proud," he said. Late online application Parents and guardians who have not applied for their children's admission to Grade 1 and Grade 8 in 2019 were urged to apply online from Wednesday at 09:00 until January 7. "Late applications are only limited to schools that are not full. It is advisable for parents to be careful when selecting their schools. Upon completion of the application, documents must be submitted to the school immediately and as such, placements will only be confirmed once the required documents are submitted within seven days. "Despite numerous attempts to interact with parents who did not submit documents, it is concerning that about 17 445 have still not submitted their documents and remain unplaced," he said. Schools in Johannesburg central, Johannesburg east and Tshwane south districts have reached capacity and are unable to place additional pupils. To date, 944 of 2013 schools with Grade 1 and 8 entry grades across the 15 districts in the province have reached capacity and are not accepting late applications. Only 1069 of 2013 schools with available space will be open for late applications. A list of schools with available space will be published on the department's website. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  