Andile Sithole Rusa officers at the scene where a cat was allegedly raped. PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANIMAL rights organisations and the police issued a stern warning to the members of the public and pet owners to report animal cruelty to the relevant officials. The warning came after a man was arrested in Tongaat for raping a dog. The suspect, aged 26, appeared at the Verulam Magistrate’s court after he allegedly raped a dog in Tongaat on Monday, October 29. Police spokesperson in Tongaat Captain Patrick Ngwane said: “It is alleged that the complainant was asleep when he heard a noise from outside. He peeped through the window and saw the suspect raping his neighbour’s dog near his house. The complainant alerted the neighbour. The suspect was apprehended and the police were summoned to the scene.” The suspect was arrested and detained at SAPS Tongaat police cells. Ngwane added: “Bestiality is sexual intercourse between a person and an animal, it is illegal. This arrest will serve as a strong warning to the perpetrators of crime that bestiality is a criminal offence. Anyone caught doing it will be arrested and sentenced to imprisonment. Animal Anti-Cruelty League (AACL) inspector Sipho Mkhize said cases of bestiality are sensitive in nature. “I once attended a complaint about a dog that was raped. Upon further investigation, we were unable to get evidence in the matter because a person who reported the matter did not have tangible evidence. I would like to encourage the public to collect the evidence as much as they can and give it to the police,”Mkhize said. Mkhize said obtaining statements from witnesses is crucial in making a strong case. “Pet owners should also record and take video clips of the suspect committing bestiality. That can be used in court. The public can also take photographs at the scene before the suspect flee the scene. This is crucial part of collecting evidence in such cases,” Mkhize said. In the another incident, Reaction Unit officers apprehended a man, aged 64, in Verulam for allegedly raping a cat last week. According to Reaction Unit South Africa, the owner of the pet saw the suspect raping her cat and alerted them. However, the police said there was no case opened the suspect was not arrested. The SPCA also denied that the cat was raped. Police spokesperson Captain Henry Kisten said: “The police attended and interviewed the complainant. There was no case opened and the suspect was not arrested,” Kisten said. In a video clip sent by Rusa the owner of the cat is heard as saying “I don’t want to report any case, but I don’t want him [suspect] in our community. I am worried about our children.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.