Boipelo Mere Residents of Lerato Park waiting for the Sol Plaatje Municipality’s delegation on Wednesday (06/06).Photo: Boipelo Mere Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Residents of wards 6,7,9 and 30 in Lerato Park, Jacksonville and Thulo Street, accuse the Sol Plaatje Municipality under the leadership of Mangaliso Matika, of wasting state resources during a meeting last week. Matika met the unhappy residents who engaged in violent service delivery protests and brought the part of the city to a standstill two months ago. That is after they threatened to take to the streets and to continue with their planned programmes. They also accused the municipality of dragging its feet. They accuse the mayor of playing dividing tactics where he classified them as quali­fiers and non-qualifiers of houses. Matika tried to inform the Lerato Park residents that they will be divided and be moved in stakes of 200 to the promised land from 25 June. A resident said: “We never told you that we want houses. That is the mess that you and your administration has to deal with after the corruption by giving our houses away. “All we want is to be put in straights as a municipa­lity. Don’t tell us about Coghsta. We will cross that bridge when we get to it.” “We are moving to Pro­mised Land whether you like it or not. That is our land.” Jacksonville residents are also angered by the pending court interdict. During the meeting on Tuesday, 5 June, the mayor basically only addressed the issue around the incomplete housing registration questionnaire. “Matika continued to say that the forms were not accompanied by payslips. “They ignored the fact that almost all of us are unemployed and depend on grants and pensions,” said Ace Papier, Jacksonville spokesperson. He said the meeting was no solution as it did not provide any way forward. Meanwhile the unhappy residents continue to engage with each other and plan to address the issues of land and housing. According to them, some of the scramped shacks in Thulo Street will be incorporated into Lerato Park, seeing that land is limited. “We have to work together as a community. We will not be divided by politicians who play big chief, small chief and chief. “They think we do not realise that they want to use our land for the beneficiaries whose houses they gave away. “We know that the pressure is mounting from the national department for them to fix their corruption,” said a Lerato Park resident. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  