Boipelo Mere Participating in the handover are from the left Bongani Wambi, Anathi Sporo, Nolundi Phillips, Fumanekile Zide and Lusapho Williams. Photos: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A youth-owned Northern Cape printing business, Emthanjeni Printers, welcomed the helping hand in terms of funding from De Aar Solar Power’s Enterprise Development Programme on Friday, 1 June. The funds will help sustain and grow their fledgling operation and boost youth employment in their area. This local business is not owned and managed by youth, but it endeavours to create jobs for youth, which helps to address the issue of youth unemployment and skills development in the remote town, De Aar. The solar plant’s support of this local black-owned company includes a capital injection to improve their service offering and ability to seek growth opportunities. Emthanjeni Printers, which started the business three years ago, received funding to help the business to branch into new streams of revenue and to support the company’s daily operations. The donation was in line with observing Youth Month 2018 which is commemorated under the theme “Live the Legacy: Towards a Socio-Economically Empowered Youth.” Hlengiwe Radebe, economic development director for De Aar Solar Power, said this is a time to consider that 65% of young people in South Africa do not have matric and often remain unskilled and unemployed. “These are just some of the reasons that we are proud to support a youth-owned business that not only employs local youth but provides ongoing training,” said Radebe in a statement. Zanoxolo Kapa, managing director of Emthanjeni Printers, said the funding from De Aar Solar Power was used to purchase much needed machinery. “The machinery has boosted our income. “This means that we can hire more local youth, provi­ding them with the ability to earn income and provide for their families,” Kapa said. The company previously outsourced all production and only earned a commission. However, the funding has led to an increase in their turnover, where they can now expand its product lines and reach out to new areas due to their increased production. “The capital expenditure means that this small enterprise, whose services reach schools, businesses, government and sports clubs across the Northern Cape, can expand their operations without taking on interest-bearing loans,” Radebe explained. She emphasised that De Aar Solar Power’s Enterprise Development strategy is focused on the support of local small and medium black owned companies. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  