Duncan Alfreds SA students are aiming for a fourth HPC victory in Germany. (CSIR) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Six South African students are looking to replicate victory in a global supercomputer competition in Frankfurt, Germany, which ends on Wednesday. The students, Meir Rosendorff, Joshua Bruton, Kimessha Paupamah, Katleho Mokoena, Nathan Michlo and Njabulo Sithole, are from Wits and the University of Limpopo, and are set to compete in the Student Cluster Competition. "It's a great opportunity and I'm loving the experience," said Michlo, as he sat with the team in preparation for the competition. In the annual competition, which takes place in Frankfurt, the students have to demonstrate their own innovative computer systems. They will be judged on the ability of their design to adhere to strict power constraints and high-performance benchmarks. In the run-up to the competition, the students were sent to the Texas Advanced Computing Centre (TACC) in Austin in the US, for extensive training and support. Rigorous selection process South Africa is no stranger to the high-performance computer competition, having won it in 2013 - the first year the country entered - as well as in 2014 and 2016. Those hoping to make it through to the supercomputer competition go through a rigorous selection process at the Centre for High Performance Computing (CHPC). The CHPC is a Department of Science and Technology initiative, carried out through the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The CHPC's Winter School helps participants build clusters on Linux systems and teams are required to build a prototype cluster in the cloud. The local selection process for next year's competition is already under way and teams are preparing for a contest which kicks off in July. In 2017, there were 10 teams that competed for national honours in December. Here are the rest of the competitors in the competition, which forms part of the International Supercomputing Conference:   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  