Boipelo Mere Learners and community members of the Ga-Segonyana Muni­cipality marching on Youth Day (16/06) against gangsterism, drug dealing and crime in general. Photo: Facebook Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The prevalence of violence, gangste­rism and crime is continuing to infiltrate schools in the John Taolo Gaetsewe District. This is directly afflicting learners, teachers and school communities. To address this issue, learners and community members of the Ga-Se­gonyana Municipality observed Youth Day on Saturday (16/06) by marching from the Ga-Mohana High School to the police station in Batlharos. In the memorandum handed over, an appeal is made that schools be the centre of excellence and a safe haven for learners in every community. “Crime impacts on the quality of education and we seek to create an environment conducive to learning and teaching in all our schools. Learners must be able to walk freely to and from school, without being bullied or having the fear of any attack. “We can no longer accept or tolerate the prevalence of crime or any form of social ill in and outside our school premises,” the memorandum stated. The learners requested School Go­verning Bodies (SGBs) and parents to mobilise all school community members to work together to curb gangsterism, drug peddling and alcohol abuse affecting learners in communities. They also said learners and youth involved in gangsterism must face the full might of the law. From the South African Police Service the learners demanded an attitude of zero tolerance towards gangsterism with immediate effect. They asked that schools regularly be raided to confiscate dangerous weapons and illegal substances. They further want the Adopt-a-Cop principle in high schools to be maintained and monitored. The marchers said visible policing in and around schools matters, as it will close drug dens that sell drugs. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  