Kago Komane iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An investigation by amaBhungane and the INK Centre for 
Investigative Journalism has cast new light on a secretive 
British-registered company whose extensive colonial-era land holdings 
have become a hot political issue in Botswana. Politicians across 
the southern African country’s political divide have expressed concern 
about the Tati Company, which is believed to own large tracts of land in
 the North-East District while many Batswana are said to need land for 
housing, cultivation and grazing. There is a widespread perception
 that the company’s main client is government and that it overprices the
 land it sells. AmaBhungane could find no evidence in Tati’s accounts or
 elsewhere either to confirm or disprove this claim. The land, in Francistown and surrounding areas, was conceded in the late 19th century by the king of Matabeleland, Lobengula. The Tati Company was incorporated in 1914 when Tati Concession Ltd ran into financial difficulties. It
 passed into the hands of South African multimillionaire Bernard Glazer,
 whose ownership was confirmed in a controversial deal with Botswana’s 
first president, Sir Seretse Khama, after the country gained 
independence. Glazer died in 1984. The Tati Company is 
registered in the United Kingdom, but its holding company is a 
mysterious vehicle registered in the tax haven of Panama, Amarena 
Holdings, which is ultimately controlled by the The Bernard Glazer Will 
Trust, incorporated in South Africa. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa
on Twitter and Facebook Tati’s 2016 accounts, 
sourced from the UK company register, valued the company’s net assets at
 366-million pula (about R470-million today) and its pre-tax earnings 
from the ownership and trading of land at 42-million pula (R54-million),
 with the profit mainly coming from the upward revaluation of its land 
holdings. One expert has alleged that together with other absentee
 landlords and freehold farmers, Tati owns more than 40% of land in the 
north-eastern Botswana. However, Tati’s directors would not comment on 
this claim. Two of the directors, David Nathan and Neville 
Sweidan, are senior executives of the Johannesburg branch of audit firm 
Grant Thornton, which has long been associated with Tati. Nathan 
refused to answer a long list of queries about Tati, including why a 
company operating in Botswana is owned by an entity registered in 
Panama. He referred amaBhungane to Tati’s Botswana-based general 
manager, Ogaisitse Khama, a distant cousin of former president Ian 
Khama. Colonial plunder After numerous attempts to draw a response from him over a 
six-week period, Khama emailed: “Thank you for your inquiry. Please be 
informed that Tati Company is a private company. We therefore have no 
comment on the story and have not confirmed its accuracy.” The 
accounts raise other questions, which were put to Nathan and Khama but 
not answered. These included why Sam Glazer – Bernard Glazer’s son – was
 paid a 6-million pula (R8-million) consulting fee in 2016. They were also asked: Questions
 to the Tati Land Board, which oversees land transactions in north-east 
Botswana, and the land ministry about the extent of Tati’s current 
holdings also went unanswered. However, the company’s 2016 accounts list the company’s portfolio of investment properties as including 12 farms and 11 lots. The total valuation of these properties was about 140-million pula (R181-million). Critics
 in Botswana view Tati as a beneficiary of colonial plunder, and 
complain that its land holdings are a brake on development in 
Francistown. South Africa’s land 
problems Writing in the Botswana Sunday Standard in February this year, veteran journalist Bashi Letsididi commented that South African President Cyril Ramaphosa’s public stance on the 
need for expropriation as a way of redressing South Africa’s land 
problems could prompt fresh scrutiny of Tati’s holdings in Botswana. In
 August 2003, the opposition Botswana National Front tabled a motion in 
the Botswana Parliament calling on the government to expropriate all 
idle and unutilised land held by the Tati Company and other absentee 
landlords. The government rejected the motion, saying this would contradict the principles of Botswana’s liberal democracy. The opposition Botswana People’s Party (BPP) – once the dominant political force in Francistown – takes a hard line on Tati. BPP
 president Motlatsi Molapisi told amaBhungane that the company is 
protected by its relationship with the Khama family. The deal reached 
between Seretse Khama and Tati in 1970, four years after independence, 
made no sense, he said. “Batswana are still paying for this 
decision through a shortage of land,” Molapisi said. “The company is 
still able to sell land and dictate what development should happen on 
the land they have sold. “To my knowledge, Tati did not buy any of
 that land, but now they sell it to government at a ridiculous price. 
Development in Francistown and the areas around it has been stagnant for
 decades because of this issue, and farmers complain about the shortage 
of grazing land.” 'Full, free and undisturbed possession' Molapisi said the BPP has long advised 
government to take back Tati’s holding. However, the authorities had 
refused to act because of what he claimed was the company’s relationship
 with the ruling Botswana Democratic Party (BDP). “We now realise that the ruling party will never take this land back unless we do something about it ourselves,” he said. According
 to the 1911 Tati Concessions Land Act, the company once owned the whole
 of the Tati district, now known as the North East. The Act 
confirmed the company in “full, free and undisturbed possession as 
owners of all the land within the Tati District, the limits of which ...
 are … from the place where the Shashe River rises to its junction with 
the Tati and Ramokgwebana Rivers, thence along the Ramokgwebana River to
 where it rises and thence along the watershed of those rivers.” The
 original Tati concession is thought to have totalled some 1.6 million 
acres (almost 650 000 hectares). The Francistown municipality covers 19 
657 hectares. Controversial circumstances The BDP MP for Tati East, Ignatius Moswaane, once 
the mayor of Francistown, said his office is currently researching how 
best to move the Tati issue forward and push government to reconsider 
its stance. “Our forefathers signed off the land to Tati Company 
under very controversial circumstances, and went as far as to let them 
make laws that would protect them from anyone who would try to take back
 the land in future,” Moswaane said. He said it is disheartening 
that after government allowed the company to keep the land after 
independence, nobody has tried to challenge the decision legally. “We
 need to grow in the north and have no way of doing that because there 
is a serious land shortage. These people are selfish because they sell 
at inflated prices and still dictate to buyers on what development they 
can undertake on the land.” He said that some Batswana have to wait more than 25 years to be allocated a plot. Moswaane
 said it is worrying that the government shows no sign of trying to 
address the issue, and is unwilling to provide information about Tati. “As
 a country, we observe the rule of law – that is why we have to deal 
with the legal aspect first. If this thing does not get corrected now, 
it will affect us forever. We need to push government to do something.” Land shortages Botswana’s
 constitution allows for expropriation “in order to secure the 
development or utilisation of … property for a purpose beneficial to the
 community”, where a law authorises this, and if there is “prompt 
payment of adequate compensation”. In 2016, Sunday Standard
 reported that Moswaane had raised the land issue with the parliamentary
 accounts committee, saying that the company was becoming a state within
 a state because of its vast land holdings, while Batswana suffered land
 shortages.  The then-deputy permanent secretary in the land 
ministry, Bareng Malatsi, replied – incorrectly – that it was difficult 
to “control” the Tati land issue because the land in question was 
obtained at the time of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, which was then 
administered by dikgosi (traditional leaders). He told the 
committee that the land falls under freehold system and was treated as 
private land when Botswana gained independence in 1966. The 
February 1970 agreement between Seretse Khama’s government and Glazer 
also handed Tati rights to “all precious and base minerals and their 
ores, coal, limestone, precious stones, minerals oils and … all other 
minerals whatsoever upon or under the property”. It assigned Tati 
the right “at all times to enter the property or part thereof for the 
purpose of inspection, survey, prospecting or mining”. It 
stipulated that when any Tati land was sold, the government should “free
 of cost of issue to Tati Company a certificate of all rights to all 
minerals in respect of each such piece of the property”. Government policy This was 
in sharp contrast with policy in most newly independent African 
countries, which vested mineral rights in the state. It was not 
immediately clear whether Tati still had mineral rights. Tati 
agreed in 1970 to donate and sell some land to the government. Attempts 
to establish from the land ministry how much land the company let go and
 how much it retained under this agreement were unsuccessful. The 
ministry of land management, water and sanitation services did, however,
 disclose that thereare no immediate plans to acquire land from Tati. Director
 of lands Segomotso Maroba said adequate freehold land has been 
purchased in Gerald Estate, a suburb of Francistown, to augment state 
holdings to accommodate growth. “Further, there are undeveloped or 
unallocated pockets of serviced land within the city that are not 
developed. “However, it is a standing government policy that, 
funds permitting, freehold land be acquired to augment tribal and state 
land as and when the need arises or for infrastructure development.” She did not answer an amaBhungane question about how much the government has spent on land purchases from Tati over the years. Future expansion of the city However,
 in 2004 University of Botswana academic Zibani Maundeni wrote that in 
addition to 8 132 hectares for the existing township, the government had
 bought 11 525 hectares in Gerald Estate “for future expansion of the 
city”. Maundeni could not be contacted for further information, including the price of the sale. According
 to another University of Botswana academic, Boga Manatsha, the Botswana
 government has struggled to resolve the land crisis in the north-east 
of the country since independence because of its market-driven approach. “In
 most cases under the willing-buyer willing-seller approach, as observed
 in north-eastern Botswana, landlords demand exorbitant sums for their 
land, leading to a willing-seller, unwilling-buyer scenario,” Manatsha 
said. In an academic article entitled “The land question and 
colonial legacy in north-eastern Botswana”, Manatsha claimed that Tati 
Company, absentee landlords and freehold farmers own 42% of the land in 
the north-east. Tati’s 2016 accounts list its company’s portfolio 
of investment properties as: “Farm 6/NQ, Farm 29/NQ, Farm 32/NQ, Farm 
42/NQ remainder, Farm 45/NQ, Farm 46/NQ, Farm 46/NQ-1, Farm 56/NQ, Farm 
60/NQ, Farm 65/NQ, Farm 66/NQ, Farm 69/NQ remainder, Lot 37175, Lot 
16136, Lot 32845, Lot 32846, Lot 32848, Lot 32856, Lot 37345, Lot 37346,
 Lot 37196, Lot 41332, Lot 41333.” Tati's annual accounts Neither the land ministry nor 
the land board would provide details of the location or size of these 
holdings. “You can obtain such information by conducting a deeds search 
at the Deeds Registry (in Francistown) and also inquire directly from 
the Tati Company,” Maroba said. The deeds registry refused access to the records unless Tati gave permission. Inspection of Tati’s annual accounts showed some details of its property sales, but generally it did not identify the buyers. In
 one case in 2008, Tati sold three of its Francistown commercial 
properties to Botswana-listed PrimeTime Properties for 75-million pula 
(R98-million), making Tati PrimeTime’s third largest shareholder. Since
 then, much of Tati’s profit appears to have come from large upward 
revaluations of its properties. Mostly due to the these, Tati’s 
investment properties swelled in value from 7-million pula (R9-million) 
in 2010 to 140-million pula (R181-million) in 2016. According to Tati’s accounts, the property valuer was “independent” and based his numbers on market values. Manatsha,
 the academic, states that concession documents dating from the 1870s 
were written in English and explained to Lobengula, who could neither 
read nor write, by “a white man” (British adventurer Sir John 
Swinburne). Lobengula’s signature is identified in all the concession 
agreement documents by a cross. Radical measures He argues that in granting the 
concession, Lobengula did not intend to give away the land for good or 
to sell it, because he was not the “rightful owner” – and that the 
Europeans were aware of this. “What ought to be done is that 
government must call Tati Company and other freehold farmers to the 
negotiation table. It is only after such discussions that radical 
measures can be put in place. But at the moment no serious discussions 
have been done over this issue,” he writes. Tati, according to 
records filed with the UK company register, is majority-owned by Amarena
 Holdings, registered in 1975 in the offshore jurisdiction of Panama. The
 website OpenCorporates, citing Panama’s registry, names Amarena’s 
directors as Julius Feinstein, Charles Zell Rangecroft and Bernard 
Glazer, who is given as the president of the company. How current 
this is is unclear, as Glazer died in 1984, while Feinstein, one of the 
founders of audit firm Kessel Feinstein – Grant Thornton’s forerunner – 
died in 2002. It is unclear whether Rangecroft, a former Kessel Feinstein partner and later Geneva resident, is still alive. Glazer’s labyrinthine network of offshore companies is detailed in a document sourced from Wikileaks called the “Blue File”. Although
 the authors are not named, the file states that it was the product of 
investigations requested by Glazer’s daughter, Michelle. In a 
court application in 2004 she argued that she gave up certain share 
interests in exchange for a lump sum payment, based on incomplete and 
misleading information about the assets. The Blue File states that
 in October 2015 Michele Glazer “unilaterally” withdrew her case against
 the Glazer estate in the Pretoria High Court and the authors “suspect 
an arrangement with her family ensued”. Tax and other regulations The Blue File claims that 
the administrators of Glazer’s estate may have set up mechanisms to 
funnel vast sums from Glazer’s investments especially mining royalties 
held across Southern Africa to other locations “to avoid tax and other 
regulations”. The file states that efforts to thoroughly 
investigate the finances of Amarena – described as Glazer’s offshore 
investment company – or the Swiss Bank accounts held by Glazer before 
his death were hampered by lack of funds. Several efforts to reach Michelle Glazer on her mobile phone were unsuccessful. Attempts to get comment about the Blue File and its allegations from Grant Thornton’s Nathan also failed. He told this reporter never to call him again, adding that he does not talk about the company to journalists. Nathan
 again referred amaBhungane to Khama, who also failed to answer the 
follow-up questions about the Blue File. He did not return calls or 
respond to emailed questions.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  