Sharika Regchand A WOMAN who was allegedly killed by her abusive police officer boyfriend in Northdale last month had penned all incidents of physical and emotional abuse in her diary. Pietermaritzburg magistrate Vincent Ncanyana further heard that in March, Doctor Sipho Chonco (32) allegedly gave Wendy Dlamini (29) a “blue eye”. The next month, she wrote in her diary that she told him she no longer wanted to continue with the “abusive relationship”. Then on April 15, he allegedly shot her in the head and chest and dumped her body in Admiral Road. He then told a friend to tell her brother what happened. This was the evidence of senior Independent Police Investigative Directorate investigator Norman Mthembu, who highlighted why he thought Chonco should not be given bail. He said that aside from having threatened Dlamini, he’d fired shots at her in October last year after beating her up. Although she did not charge him at the time, she got a protection order against him, but later withdrew it after listening to his pleas. Mthembu described Chonco as “trigger happy”. Once he fired shots at his neighbour over a fencing dispute and on another occasion he fired shots inside a KFC. Cases were opened against him but were withdrawn because he offered the complainants money, said the investigator. Mthembu said that Dlamini’s family and Chonco’s friends are afraid of what might happen to them if he got bail. Dlamini’s aunt said Chonco once called and threatened to kill her if she did not stop meddling in his relationship. “His friends say their lives are in danger because they know his character.” Mthembu said that Dlamini worked in Eshowe for the Department of Water and Sanitation Affairs while her family lived in Pietermaritzburg. Mthembu used to visit and assault her. He added that she’d applied for a transfer to Howick to be closer to her family. Chonco, who was stationed at the Msinga Police Station, has been suspended since his arrest. Chonco previously testified that he intends pleading guilty and that he shot Dlamini. However, he did not go into the details. He said the relationship was “good” until last July, when the two moved in together into his Mpolweni home. She used to get upset that he used to go home late because he was spending time with his friends. They then used to have lots of “quarrels”. Mthembu will be cross-examined in June. Once he fired shots at his neighbour over a fencing dispute and on another occasion he fired shots inside a KFC. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  