Byrone Athman THE mother of a 13-year-old girl who was raped last year in a rundown West Street, Pietemaritzburg house was left frustrated at the lack of closure her child has received as the case was yet again adjourned last Thursday after a police officer failed to pick her up from Chatsworth, where she now lives, for her to attend the trial. The mother told the Maritzburg Fever that the last year has been a traumatising one for her and her daughter as the man accused of raping her daughter has still not been sentenced. “Yes he has been denied bail but we would like to know that we never have to see this man again. He needs to spend the rest of his life in jail for what he did to my daughter,” she said. Last year in October, the mother who lived in a women’s shelter at the time, woke up and saw that her daughter was not in bed with her where she usually sleeps. She began to search for her but to no avail. The next morning she discovered her daughter, along with some of her friends, had sneaked out of the house to make their way to the house on West Street in order for one of her friends to see her boyfriend. The friend’s boyfriend, a foreign national, then forced the woman’s daughter to spend the night at the house and once she was asleep, crept into her bed where he allegedly raped       her. The mother, along with the police, were then tipped off as to her daughter’s whereabouts where they forced their way into the house to conduct a search. The police then found the girl cowering in fear under the man’s bed and returned her to her mother and then arrested the man who has been in custody ever since. He was charged with statutory rape. After the incident, the mother and daughter relocated to Chatsworth. The mother said she was disappointed by the police officer for not fetching her daughter. She had to find her own transport to court but arrived late, resulting in the case being adjourned. “Since relocating to Chatsworth the police confirmed that they would pick us up on the next date of the case and they have failed me and my daughter,” she said. The mother added that now they would have to wait until August when the trial will be back again to put this part of their life in the past. He’s been denied bail but we would like to know that we never have to see this man again. He needs to spend the rest of his life in jail for what he did to my daughter. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  