Sesona Ngqakamba Former Gauteng Health MEC Brian Hlongwa. (Photo by Gallo Images / Beeld / Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC's Gauteng provincial working committee (PWC) is calling on the party's integrity committee to speedily conclude the matter related to allegations against Brian Hlongwa, who is the ANC chief whip in the Gauteng legislature. The PWC on Thursday said the matter has been in the public domain and a subject of inquiry for several years without any conclusion. The integrity committee is expected to meet next month. Hlongwa has allegedly been linked to corruption amounting to R1.2bn. The allegations date back to when he was Gauteng's health MEC, between 2006 and 2009. The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) released its damning report in May this year, detailing the outcomes of its investigation into the health department. It was tasked by former president Jacob Zuma to investigate the alleged corruption in May 2010. New instructions from NPA The SIU submitted its report to Zuma in March 2017. ANC provincial secretary Hope Mankwana Papo said the ANC was of the view that the dragging out of Hlongwa's case undermined the democratic state's fight against corruption and "violates the right to speedy justice". "We call on the criminal justice system to expedite the matter and bring closure on it (sic)," Papo said. On Wednesday the Hawks confirmed to News24 that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) had given it new instructions in its investigation into the alleged corruption. "There are new instructions that have been given to the investigating team by the NPA on the matter and investigations are ongoing," Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said. "The new instructions remain confidential," he added. When contacted on Wednesday, Hlongwa told News24 he couldn't talk because he was in "an urgent meeting". He referred News24 to a statement he released on Monday regarding the SIU report. In the statement, Hlongwa said the report was nothing new and labelled it a ploy "to embarrass the Gauteng ANC". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  