Marizka Coetzer Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A married woman from Potchefstroom has been refused bail on charges of conspiracy to commit murder, while one of her co-accused, allegedly her lover, was let go with a warning. The woman, her alleged lover and a third suspect were arrested on 4 June after a charge of conspiracy to commit rape and murder had been laid against them at the Potchefstroom police station. They appeared in the Potchefstroom magistrate’s court on 13 June. Their names can’t be revealed because one of the charges against them is sex-related and they haven’t been given leave to plead yet. The woman – apparently a well-known businesswoman in town – and the third accused were denied bail, while her alleged lover was let go with a warning, The Potchefstroom Herald reports. On 2 June the third accused allegedly telephonically threatened a man and his family that he would kill and rape them. It wasn’t revealed in court who the victims of the threat were. The third accused allegedly told them, “I’m going to rape her [the couple’s four-year-old granddaughter] and slit her throat,” the Potchefstroom Herald reported. The victim laid a charge at the Potchefstroom police station on Monday 4 June, leading to the arrests. The married woman, who’s allegedly friends with the victim of the threats, is said to have had a heated argument with his wife after the alleged affair came to light. The death threats followed shortly thereafter. A good friend of the alleged lover describes him as a “kind person”. “My dear friend, I’ve known him for years,” she told YOU. “He’s a wonderful person. The man I know wouldn’t do [what they’re being accused of].” She says after he’d shared a picture in April of himself and the woman on Facebook – despite the fact she’s married – she asked him about his blonde friend. “Romantic wedding by the water, Pongola,” he’d written alongside the pic. “He’d said we should go for coffee and he’d tell me everything,” the friend says. But two months later as the alleged illicit affair came to light the three were arrested. The case has been postponed to 13 July. The police spokesperson couldn’t be reached for comment. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  