Derrick Spies, Correspondent Attacks on leaders in Zimbabwe and Ethiopia have been strongly condemned by President Cyril Ramaphosa and political parties in South Africa. This follows after an explosive device was detonated at a Zanu-PF rally in White City Stadium in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, and a deadly blast occurred at a rally in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on Saturday. READ: Blast as Zimbabwe president campaigns; Mnangagwa not hurt and Deadly blast at Ethiopia rally a 'well-orchestrated attack' In the Zimbabwean attack, President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who had been addressing the crowds, escaped unharmed, but Vice President Kembo Mohadi was injured in the leg and taken to a local hospital. At least 15 people were injured, three seriously, and some lost limbs in the explosion, according to Zimbabwe's Health Minister David Parirenyatwa. In Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian Health Minister announced a total of two people died in the blast, while more than 150 people were injured. UPDATE: Arrests announced as death toll rises in Ethiopia attack The attacks have been condemned by the international community, with Ramaphosa and South African political parties adding their voices. Condemnation Ramaphosa said acts of violence and criminality had no place in the democratic process of any sovereign state in the SADC region. He said it was vital that the political and security situation in Zimbabwe remain stable in the run-up to the general elections to be held on 30 July 2018. The ANC said the violent acts should be condemned and not be allowed to spread and to be assimilated. "The ANC views these as barbaric and cowardice acts of assassination attempts and deliberate ploys to destabilise and create disunity and confusion in our sister African countries," said ANC national spokesperson, Pule Mabe. "These coward and barbaric acts have no place towards a peaceful, prosperous and integrated Africa that is transforming and seeks to accelerate initiatives for growth and sustainable development. Mabe said the ANC called on the police and security agencies in both countries to find the perpetrators and to bring them to book. Mabe also called on South Africans to be vigilant and report any suspicious acts to the police and security agencies. "We must not allow our countries to be taken back to the use of violence and assassinations as a means to silence political opponents and those who occupy different positions to us. READ: SADC to evaluate Zim blast rally and take appropriate steps - Ramaphosa Taking to Twitter, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the party condemned the bombing in Zimbabwe. "More than anything the country needs free and fair elections without violence. SA and [SADC] must conduct an investigation urgently to determine all causes. Violence is undemocratic," he tweeted. The Economic Freedom Fighters also condemned the assassination attempt on Mnangagwa. "Zimbabwe has undergone a number of structural changes and the recent removal of former president, Robert Mugabe was a peaceful and non-violent action by the people of Zimbabwe," said EFF national spokesperson, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. "We have hoped that this peace remains in place until the upcoming elections and beyond, in order for Zimbabwe to return to its former glory as the bread basket of Africa." Ndlozi said the violence that plagued many African countries had to be done away with. "We need to rebuild the continent and, as a people, we must unite to rid ourselves of the colonial past, but first let us learn to use non-violent means to achieve democratic states," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  