SIYAJABULA Centre, a humble little crèche in the Embo valley, is appealing to the community to assist them with purchasing a vehicle. According to project manager of the centre, Mnqobi Zondi, transportation can be a challenge with any family, however, with a family of their size, with pupils needing to go to school, visit the doctor, go on church trips, etc. having a vehicle at the premises is becoming a necessity. He said the importance of a vehicle was revealed to them recently when one of their orphans became ill in the middle of the night, and they had no way of transporting the child to the clinic. “The nearest clinic is over six kilometres away and because of our location, it is difficult to direct people to the orphanage. We had to wait until morning to get transport to take the child to hospital.” In addition, Zondi said that the orphanage is not on a taxi route and the children have to get up at 4 am every morning to prepare for the long walk to the taxi stop. He said that taking taxis from their area is also a problem, as the taxi does not take you directly to your destination, and you have to get off and take another taxi, which also impacts on the cost of transport. “We are an NGO and we cannot fork out so much money for taxi fares for every trip we have to make. “The fact that the children have to get up so early to get to school is heartbreaking as they get to school tired every day.” One of the children at the centre who is a matric pupil and did not want to be named, said that even though they wake up at 4 am to get ready to go to school every day they always get to school late as they sometimes have to take more than one taxi, or they have to wait a long time for a taxi to pick them up. “We leave when it’s still dark because it takes longer for a taxi to come, and with the winter approaching it’s going to be really hard,” she said. “I wish someone would help us.” To assist Siyajabula with purchasing a vehicle or to donate one to them, contact the centre at 084 430 7121.