Alex Mitchley in Tzaneen Members of the public line up in Tzaneen, Limpopo, to participate in the public hearings into the amendment of section 25 of the Constitution to allow for land expropriation without compensation. (Alex Mitchley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories EFF and Cope leaders Julius Malema and Mosiuoa Lekota got into a heated argument on Wednesday at a public hearing on land expropriation in Limpopo. Watch.WATCH As the first set of public hearings into the amendment of section 25 of the Constitution in Limpopo draw to a close, the need for land expropriation without compensation has been the popular opinion expressed by participants. Thohoyandou will be the last stop for the public hearings in Limpopo as the Constitutional Review Committee sits and listens to the public on Saturday. At public hearings in Marble Hall, Mokopane and Tzaneen earlier this week members of the public who supported the amendment of section 25 were in the overwhelming majority. Read: Land: The people speak – Strong support for expropriation without compensation in Kuruman While a small number of people, including farmers, have spoken out against changing the Constitution, most of their contributions have been drowned out by those in favour of making the amendment. The last session of public hearings in the Northern Cape will also begin on Saturday morning in the capital, Kimberley. The committee in the Northern Cape has held hearings in Upington, Springbok and Kuruman throughout the week. Read more: Land: The people speak - 'Land tells the truth,' committee hears in Upington While the overall opinion in Kuruman was that section 25 should be amended, Upington and Springbok received a mixed bag of reactions on whether or not land should be expropriated without compensation. In both Upington and Springbok, there was also an overwhelming message that Khoi and San people wanted recognition as South Africa's first inhabitants.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  