Christina Pitt Patricia de Lille has won her court case against the DA. (Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Patricia de Lille's court battles have not yet come to an end as she gears up for the Western Cape High Court review of the internal report into her conduct, authored by DA chief whip John Steenhuisen. On Wednesday, the High Court set aside the DA's decision to terminate De Lille's party membership over comments she had made during a radio interview. A full Bench determined that the party's decision to expel De Lille from the DA was unlawful and set it aside with costs. READ: 'This is not the end' - De Lille after court victory The Cape Town mayor now plans to challenge the findings in the Steenhuisen report, which informed the DA's decision to sanction De Lille for her alleged misconduct. De Lille is demanding two documents: A letter from Cape Town safety and security mayoral committee member JP Smith and an SMS she allegedly sent to someone regarding the scoring of Achmat Ebrahim's performance at the time he applied for the position of City manager. DA to appeal judgment It is alleged that De Lille demanded a good score for Ebrahim as she wanted him to secure the job - a charge she denies. Ebrahim resigned after the allegations were made and he himself faced suspension. De Lille said in a statement in May that she has been asking for the SMS since September 2017. "It is only fair I receive this as this SMS was relied upon to initiate disciplinary action against me. We are demanding from the DA the name of the person that I allegedly sent the SMS to, the number of the phone which I allegedly sent the SMS to, and a copy of the SMS," she said. De Lille may have been victorious on Wednesday, but the DA's Natasha Mazzone made it clear that the party wanted to appeal the court's decision. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  