Sesona Ngqakamba (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Knysna Taxi Forum secretary Mandla Tyololo says "poor service delivery" was the main reason behind their mass protest on Monday. The forum embarked on a march from the N2 at Nekkies, on the eastern side of Knysna, and proceeded to Long and Clyde streets to hand in petitions to the court, police and Knysna Municipality. Among other things, the Knysna Taxi Forum is demanding security officers be deployed at their taxi ranks, and at their pick-up and drop-off zones. "The reason why we started at the police station is because of the poor service we are getting from them. There is no movement from them and poor investigations into reported cases," Tyololo said. Tyololo said, when they reported crime to the police, they did not get any feedback regarding the status of the cases, and that had resulted in them "losing faith in the police". "As a result of [their] slow movement in reported cases, people are always frustrated and end up taking the law into their own hands. For example, if there is a person who sells drugs, we call the police and report. [They] attend to the cases, but there is never feedback as to what happens to those drugs, the money etc," Tyololo said. Tyololo said the commissioner has asked them to bring forward cases they were not happy with, so that there could be investigations. Western Cape spokesperson Malcolm Pojie said the protest was "peaceful" and that no violence had been reported. Pojie said, by about midday, almost 1 000 people had joined the march. "About 200 people participated from the morning, but as the day went by, almost a 1 000 had joined in. They were behaving because this was a legal march and everything was in order as arranged beforehand. No incidents have yet been reported by the officers who were monitoring," Pojie said. An aerial photo of the taxi protest in Knysna. Marchers are now moving to the police station. Read a previous article here: https://t.co/biUlI9ozxi pic.twitter.com/7gMnTSfZT9     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  