Tiyese Jeranji@Jeranji Some members of the Seaside Quilters with Margie Adams in the middle row, fifth from the left, in the black top. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories “Any time women come together with a collective intention, it’s a powerful thing. Whether it’s sitting down making a quilt, in a kitchen preparing a meal, in a club reading the same book, or around the table playing cards, or planning a birthday party, when women come together with a collective intention, magic happens,” once said Phylicia Rashad. And this statement doesn’t fall short of describing the Seaside Art, Patchwork and Quilting Club (Seaside Quilters for short). This group of women from the Far South have been together for about six years. Margie Adams (59), who is now the chairperson of the club, started the group with only 17 women and it now has grown to 65 members. “I wanted to learn to quilt myself so I went to other clubs to learn. It was all in good time because at the time I was not working so I needed something to do. When I got a job I still didn’t want to miss on the quilting so I decided to form my own group,” she says. Adams says her first meeting was well attended. “We started with only 17 people and I thought it was such a good number for a start. The group started growing and it has not stopped. It is for everyone who wants to learn to quilt and it doesn’t matter your age or level of skill. The women are fantastic and they love what they do and they teach each other a lot. It has become more that just a quilting group but friends that are there to help each other,” she says. The women work on different projects, challenge themselves and help charity organisations in their areas through their quilts. “We work on projects for six months, at times even more. We give ourselves challenges to work on something maybe for Cancer Month or anything that we want to help out with.” Apart from quilting, the women go on retreats and overseas trips together. “This is about friendships, travelling together and bringing new ideas to the club. We will be going to Franschhoek for our retreat and in September I will take them to Bali. This year is the second year we are going to Bali. These women enjoy it a lot. When we go to Bali we buy fabric, go to jewellery stalls, cuisines and just have fun together. We have become like family and everyone loves quilting,” she says. Adams met Bernmari Rowan Joubert, an accomplished quilter from Parow, with her group of quilters, “Loslappies”. Joubert offered the museum a quilt as a memento of Fish Hoek’s centenary. The group meets at the NG Kerk Hall in Kommetjie Road once a month on a Saturday from 14:00 to 16:30. V 
  For more information, call Margie Adams on 083 557 6696. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  