Alex Mitchley and Adriaan Basson Former acting head of crime intelligence Major General Pat Mokushane. (Jan Gerber, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former crime intelligence boss Pat Mokushane has been arrested and is expected to appear in court on charges of corruption, fraud and money laundering on Friday. Two independent sources have told News24 that Mokushane, Brigadier Leonora Bamuza-Phetlhe and one other police officer in crime intelligence were arrested on Thursday evening. News24 understands that they will be charged with corruption, fraud and money laundering. It is alleged that claims were falsified, and payoffs were received for the fraudulent payments. News24 previously reported that there would be "new developments" in the case against Bamuza-Phetlhe. She allegedly falsified security clearance certificates and has a payment of R50 000 from the State Security Agency (SSA) in her bank account, National Police Commissioner Lieutenant General Khehla Sitole told the Portfolio Committee on Police in August. The committee heard that Bamuza-Phetlhe issued an instruction to print a security clearance certificate for then-acting crime intelligence head Pat Mokushane. The trio appeared in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Friday and were released on R5 000 bail each. They were released on condition that they would not interfere or intimidate state witnesses as well as the investigating officer on the case. The National Commissioner of Police General Khehla Sitole welcomed the arrest. "I am pleased with the tenacity with which the Unit has handled this case. As much as it is disheartening to see seasoned senior managers of the Service being arrested, I am happy to also see that they are being arrested by their colleagues which shows our commitment to ridding the SAPS of corrupt individual members," he said. The case is postponed to July 27.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  