Andile Sithole PHOTO: andile sitholeRoshan Lil-Ruthan (left) and other residents protest outside Verulam Magistrate’s court. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE case of a man (48) accused of raping an eight-year old girl was adjourned at Verulam Magistrate’s court again yesterday, June 6. The suspect appeared in court on Monday and Tuesday for the hearing of his bail application however the case was adjourned after his legal representative said he was mentally disturbed. The magistrate asked the lawyer to produce documents to prove that the suspect is mentally disturbed. The suspect is accused of raping his niece at a home in Verulam last week. Family members and residents protested outside the court opposing bail. The mother of the victim, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the child, said her daughter is still traumatised after the incident. “He [the suspect] must be removed from the community because he is abusing children. We are here today to oppose bail. As the family, we want justice for our daughter,” she said. Community activist, Roshan Lil-Ruthan said: “We oppose the bail because we do not want him to be released until the matter is finalised. We do not want to put the lives of other children in danger. As a community, we feel that there are special places where the suspect can be kept until the matter is officially concluded,” Lil-Ruthan said. He said the latest incident came at a time when KZN residents were still reeling from shock after an eight-year-old girl was shot dead during a botched hijacking incident in Chatsworth. “The latest incident brings more trauma to the residents and it happened at the time while we commemorate Child Protection Week. As leaders, we should stand up and protect women and children.” The lawyer representing the accused told the court yesterday that a case was a delicate matter that requires legal assistance from his superiors. The matter was adjourned for today June 7 with the suspect being help in custody until his next appearance in court. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  