Amanda Khoza File photo: Ward councillor Monde Nqulwana and sub council 24 manager Lulamile Rorwana looks on as Nolwazi Mnqanqeni signs her title deed. (Unathi Obose, City Vision) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Protesters have burned tyres and vandalised a hall in Khayelitsha to express their anger over a lack of basic services and poor living conditions. Watch.WATCH The South African Communist Party in the Brian Bunting District encouraged a Khayelitsha ward councillor to open a case against angry residents who torched and looted his house on Thursday afternoon, after promises to electrify their homes never materialised. SACP deputy district secretary Siyabonga Mgolombane said, in 2017, the Site B community had demanded that the city council electrify their homes. Mgolombane said the City of Cape Town had committed to relocate some residents, due to the density of the area, to make way for electrification. However, this promise never materialised, leading to protests. "It is our belief that councillor Monde Nqulwana has served his community with distinction and is arguably one of the leading councillors in responding to the demands of his community. 'Unjustifiable, inhumane and criminality' "Thus, the blazing down and looting of his house is unjustifiable, inhumane… and criminality. As such, the leadership of the SACP in the district has instructed him to open a criminal case with the SAPS," said Mgolombane. Nqulwana's intervention apparently resulted in the mayor visiting the community and reassuring them that their homes would be electrified. "We welcome the mayor’s commitment to start the electrification process without any delay. We also commit to working closely with the community leadership to ensure that the promises by the City are fulfilled without any delay. However, we are disappointed that illegal and violent means were used to replace dialogue," said Mgolombane. He also condemned the torching and the looting of the OR Tambo Hall, one of the facilities in the area. "This hall is also one of the symbols of the role played by our stalwart in [our] democracy". He said inhumane and violent means are fast replacing dialogue in resolving issues in society. The party called on the police to arrest those who were responsible for the crime. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  