Sesona Ngqakamba Metrobus (File, Gallo Images / Sunday Times / Dudu Zitha) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Video footage has emerged of a suspected arsonist accidentally setting himself alight during the protracted national bus strike on Friday, April 27. Watch.WATCH Commuters in some areas of Johannesburg's Metrobus routes were forced to use alternative buses and forms of transport on Tuesday, after members affiliated to the Democratic Municipal and Allied Workers Union of South Africa (Demawusa) embarked on a strike. The members blocked buses from leaving Village Main depot and disrupted daily operations. Metrobus spokesperson Goodwill Shiburi said two bus drivers were injured and taken to hospital. Among its long list of demands, the union wants Metrobus to pay salary progressions in terms of the number of years an employee had worked for the company and compensation for bus drivers with long-term service salary bonuses. Speaking to News24, Shiburi said the main issue they had noted was that Demawusa members wanted to be recognised as a union representing workers and therefore "embarking on a strike was a way to seek attention for that recognition". Recognition He added that some of the union's demands were issues that were already resolved at the bargaining council, collectively by the City, the South African Municipal Workers Union(Samwu) and the Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Unions (Imatu). "The main issue here is that Demawusa wants to be recognised as a union since they are a breakaway from Samwu, but they consequently don't have numbers to do so," Shiburi said. Shiburi said Metrobus management agreed to engage and hear the union for the sake of commuters and to avoid ongoing chaos. "We have declined at least four of [their] demands, because they were already resolved at the bargaining council with other unions. "We will meet again tomorrow (Wednesday) to engage on other matters they have put forward and will hopefully come to an agreement," Shiburi said. Metrobus management will meet again with Demawusa on Wednesday at 08:00. Demawusa was launched in 2015 after some members broke away from the Congress of South African Trade Unions' Samwu. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  