Tholakele Mnganga Nelson Mandela and Winnie Mandela (PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A battle for legends to be honoured is
brewing after the ANC and EFF put forward their suggestions for the renaming of
Cape Town International Airport. Following on from the speech he gave at her
funeral in April, EFF commander-in-chief Julius Malema called on his supporters
to submit Winnie Madikizela-Mandela international airport as the preferred name
they want for the Airport as their way of honouring the late anti-apartheid
struggle stalwart But it would seem even in death, there can
be no peace in the Mandela family as the ANC have called for the late Nelson
Mandela to receiving the naming rights for the airport. In a since deleted tweet, the ruling party
called for support in their bid to name it after the former president as part
of centenary celebrations for the political icon who died in 2013. Airports Company South Africa have given
the public a deadline of 6 June to submit names for the change. Once the public process complete, a report
of conclusions and recommendations will be compiled. The process has not been without
controversy. On Monday, tempers flared during a public
meeting to discuss the renaming. Following the announcement by the ANC on
Wednesday that they wanted to change Cape Town’s airport to honour Nelson
Mandela, twitter users, including the EFF’s official account, were quick to
show their dissatisfaction with the idea. We reject the renaming of Cape Town International Airport to Nelson Mandela because Mandela already has a university, a metro, and all major streets in the country named after him. #AirportNameChange Instead, the Women’s League has now participated in rendering Mama Winnie Mandela’s name into insignificance, second to that of a man by placing Nelson Mandela first for renaming of Cape Airport #AirportNameChange I don’t think we need one more thing named after Nelson Mandela. I think still supporting Winnie Madikizela international. In fact let me make my submission. Why would the ANC want to name the airport after Nelson Mandela? He’s got enough things named after him. https://t.co/MHBkNr1Leo Let's just rename the whole country Nelson Mandela once pic.twitter.com/Y81WLPGYrZ So, in typical male chauvinist character, the ANC chooses Nelson Mandela’s name for the airport of the legislative Capital, and relegates Mama Winnie’s name to Kimberly which is a lovely town, but not a capital. But some of the decisions that you take @MYANC are very problematic. There is NO REASON for proposing Nelson Mandela as the name of the Cape Town Airport!    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.