Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 The home was set alight following the discovery of the body of a six-year-old, found in a shallow grave. PHOTO: FAcebook. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The community has been rocked by yet another child murder at the weekend. And in outrage, they have acted out, petrol bombing the house where she was found. The body of the six-year-old girl was found buried in a shallow grave near her Eastridge home on Sunday shortly after being reported missing. “We are calling on our partners, the South African Police Service, to investigate this case thoroughly, and bring the perpetrator(s) to book,” says Minister for Social Development, Albert Fritz in a statement­. “Social workers from our Mitchell’s Plain local office have been rendering trauma counselling to the family, and will continue to support the home through this difficult time.” Mitchell’s Plain Impact Association (MPIA) chairperson Joanie Fredericks expressed her heartache late Sunday afternoon. “[We] have to admit that not nearly enough is being done to curb the violence against children. The murder of the little Eastridge girl could and should have been prevented if we, the community didn’t start to feel a false sense of security. Organizations on the ground, including MPIA have not done nearly enough awareness raising, we simply accepted that the communities will remember the devastating aftermaths of 2017, the year where an unprecedented amount of children were brutally raped and killed by those known to them, most of the perpetrators in trusted positions. It is absolutely unacceptable that we didn’t take the lessons learned last year to heart.” Following the discovery, a 25-year-old man was taken into custody. In anger, residents set the home alight. No injuries have been reported. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  