Andile Sithole ANOTHER child (10) has become a rape victim in less than a week after an eight-year old girl was reportedly raped in Verulam. According to the Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), the suspect, who is the victim’s stepfather, has been allegedly raping her for the past five years, following the death of the child’s mother, his wife. On Monday, June 11 residents heard about the incident and approached the suspect. The angry residents then broke into his house and assaulted him. When officers from Reaction Unit South Africa arrived at the suspect’s house, it is alleged that used condoms were found at the scene. Operations manager Vinod Singh said: “A neighbour found used condoms in the suspect’s home. She questioned the child who said that she was being raped by her stepfather since her mother’s death five years ago. “The child went on to explain that she and her stepfather had moved to Verulam from Johannesburg in December last year. “He had sealed all the windows in their home and held her captive in the house while he was at work,” Singh said. Singh said the victim was not attending school. “He had also asked her to sleep with other men to subsidise his income as a mechanic.” When residents entered his home several sex toys, lingerie and pornographic videos were found. “The child admitted that the sex toys were used on her. The suspect was placed under arrest at the Verulam SAPS,” Singh said. The accused was taken to Osindisweni Hospital, however he escaped custody on Tuesday. The police could not comment on how the suspect escaped from the hospital. Rusa circulated the suspect’s photo on Facebook and he was arrested in Phoenix later that day. Social work supervisor at the Verulam Child and Family Welfare Society Mala Pather urged the community to report child abuse to the authorities. “We ask the community to be more vigilant and to be our ears and eyes in the community. You must report child abuse to the authorities so that all the complaints will be investigated,” Pather said. Police spokesperson Captain Thembeka Mbhele said: “We can confirm that a case of rape and sexual assault was opened at Verulam police station and it has been transferred to Phoenix FCS for investigation. A stepfather was arrested for repeatedly raping a 10-year old victim. He will be charged and will appear in court soon.” Last week, a case of a 48-year-old man who was accused of raping his eight-year old niece was adjourned at the Verulam Magistrate’s court until June 28. The suspect will be sent for mental evaluation to determine if he is mentally disturbed. He will be held at Westville Prison until his next appearance in court. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  