Sesona Ngqakamba Forty-three people have been arrested on charges of malicious damage to property and will appear in the Scottburgh Magistrate's Court. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Forty-three people have been arrested on charges of malicious damage to property and will appear in the Scottburgh Magistrate's Court on Wednesday, KwaZulu-Natal police said. This follows a protest by members of Amandawe community that started at around 05:00 on Tuesday. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said a crowd of about 1500 people barricaded Dududu Road from Amandawe with rocks and burning tyres, preventing vehicles from passing. They also dragged an old unused bus, and a car onto the road in Amagcino Ward in Amandawe, placed rocks to blockade the road and set a sugarcane plantation alight. The police had to use a Nyala to clear the road and allowed for the free flow of traffic. READ: 2 trucks set alight in KZN protest Police also confronted the crowd of protesters at the intersection of Dududu Road and R101 Old Main Road in Freeland Park, preventing them from proceeding to Scottburgh. Mbhele said the crowd broke branches from bushes alongside the freeway and brought traffic to a standstill when they stoned vehicles. "Public Order Police responded with the necessary force and the means at their disposal to disperse the volatile and increasingly violent crowd," she said. The Scottburgh police are investigating cases of malicious injury to property and public violence. According to Mbhele, a memorandum of demands for service delivery had been presented to the municipality on 30 May and community members were dissatisfied with the response received, which erupted the protest.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  