Derrick Spies, Correspondent (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A police officer was gunned down while trying to stop a vehicle in New Brighton on Tuesday. Police spokesperson Captain Andre Beetge said detective constable Bonga Ngcingwana, 35, and a fellow police officer, a 37-year-old detective sergeant, had stopped a Toyota Etios in Mendi Road, New Brighton, on Tuesday at around 15:00. Beetge said as the two police officers exited their marked police vehicle, a black Nissan double cab, four men climbed out of the Etios and opened fire on them. He said several shots were fired, with Ngcingwana, who was linked to the Mount Road police station, being hit several times, while his colleague was able to find cover. "Seconds after the shooting, a New Brighton police vehicle came across the scene, unaware of what happened. "The suspects also opened fire at these members, and the police members responded by shooting back at the attackers," he said. Beetge said the shooters managed to evade arrest. Police call for public's help He said Ngcingwana died on his way to hospital. National Police Commissioner General Khehla Sitole has condemned Ngcingwana's murder. Sitole sent his condolences to the province and Ngcingwana's family, and directed provincial commissioner Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga to establish a task team to activate a 72-hour reaction plan to hunt down the perpetrators. "If you kill one of our own, we will hunt you down until we find and arrest you. Police killers do not deserve to live among law abiding citizens, they deserve to rot in jail," said Sitole. "We cannot allow the ongoing onslaught against our men and women in blue who are mandated by the Constitution of the republic to ensure that inhabitants are and feel safe. "This undermines the authority of the state. We need the members of the community to work with the police in the fight against crime," appealed Sitole. Any person with information that might assist police in their investigation is urged to contact the Motherwell cluster serious violent crime's Lieutenant Colonel Smidt on 082 441 8121 or call Crime Stop on 08600 10111. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  