Sesona Ngqakamba Constable Renè Adams with the rescued baby girl who was found abandoned in a ditch. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The police may deal with hardened criminals every day, but officers in Port Elizabeth showed their softer side this week by showering love on a baby girl who was found freezing cold in a ditch. Kabega Park police officers on Thursday stepped in as mothers and fathers when the three-month-old abandoned baby was handed over to them by the Salvation Army. ALSO READ: Newborn baby rescued from pit toilet in KZN Police spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the infant was found lying in a muddy ditch by a man who was walking on Draaifontein Road, in Greenbushes. "The man who found the baby took her to the NGO, which then handed her over to the police," said Naidu. Naidu said a bag and feeding bottle were found not far away from the tiny baby. Search for baby's mother She was taken to the police station's victim centre, where she was bathed and dressed in warm, clean clothes, said Naidu. The officers fed her a warm bottle of milk, as she was still cold from the wet clothes she was found in. Naidu said on Friday that no one had come forward to claim the infant. She was in a safe place after being taken to social workers at Dora Nginza Hospital. ALSO READ: Abandoned baby found in PE after passersby hear her cries The mother was arrested by Kabega Park police on Friday after receiving information from a community member who said the mother will be visiting an aunt in Kuyga, Naidu said. "When the 24-year-old woman arrived, she was arrested." She will appear in St Alban’s Magistrate’s Court on Monday
on a charge of child abandonment. "The case is being investigated by the Family Violence Child
Protection and Sexual Offences Unit in Port Elizabeth," Naidu said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  