Jenna Etheridge Diane Nelson has been reported missing. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Cape Town clinical psychologist has not yet been found since her disappearance over the weekend, Western Cape police said on Tuesday. Diane Nelson, 49, who consulted from rooms at Crescent Clinic, a private psychiatric facility in Claremont, went missing on Saturday. She was last seen around 20:00 that day and was reported missing at Claremont police station, said Western Cape police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel André Traut. He said her car was found at Cecilia Forest. The location is popular with hikers, who take several routes from the forest car park. Traut would not expand on the efforts to find her. He said developments in the matter could not be disclosed at this stage. "The circumstances surrounding her disappearance are being investigated," he said. Crescent Clinic was not immediately in a position to comment on her disappearance. According to Netwerk24, her handbag was apparently found in her car, while her cellphone, which was believed to be with her, was switched off. South African National Parks (SANParks) spokesperson, Rey Thakhuli, told News24 that their rangers assisted the Cape Town Metro Police and South African Police in searching the Cecilia forest area on Saturday after Nelson's vehicle was found in the parking lot. "It did not yield any results and was called off at approximately 21h30. The search resumed again on Sunday morning at 10:00am where the person still could not be located and the search was called off by the police pending further investigations. "We are not certain if the person is on the mountain except that the vehicle was parked close to it." Some of the people she had assisted in the past took to social media to express their shock and sorrow at the news, along with gratitude for the support she had provided them. Messages of support for her loved ones also poured in as people circulated the Pink Ladies poster, in the hopes of finding her and ensuring her safe return. Nelson, who is 1.8m tall and who has short blonde hair and a tattoo on her wrist, was last seen wearing a dark top and grey pants. Anyone with information can contact Claremont Constable Nkonki on 021 657 2243 or 079 894 1563. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  