Teboho Setena A convicted robber, Namane Jonas Maleke (26), is back in prison to serve long-term after violating his parole conditions by committing a similar crime. His return to prison followed his sentencing to 27 years’ effective imprisonment by the Bloemfontein High Court for armed robbery after being released on parole in 2016. Maleke was sentenced on 22 May and the verdict ended the 19 months’ trial. The sentencing followed the killing of tuckshop owner Jahangir Alam (36) during a failed armed robbery in Ipopeng, Bloemfontein. Sgt Sinah Mpakane, provincial police spokesperson, said the failed robbery took place on 26 June 2016. She said the court found Maleke guilty on counts of attempted robbery with aggravating circumstances, murder, and the illegal possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Maleke was sentenced to eight years for attempted robbery with aggravating circumstances, 20 years for the murder of the tuckshop owner and seven years for the illegal possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Mpakane said Maleke and his accomplices attacked Alam at about 05:30, when he was about to open for business. “The accused and his accomplice were already hiding inside the yard,” said Mpakane. “Maleke then shot the deceased once in the forehead before fleeing the scene without stealing anything. “Through intelligent- led information, Maleke was found with an unlicensed firearm hidden in his shack at the Chris Hani location, Bloemfontein. “Forensic tests positively linked the firearm to the shooting.” She said the accomplices had turned to state witnesses during Ma­leke’s murder trial. Mpakane said during the commission of the violent crime Maleke had been on parole for a robbery he had committed on 6 July 2013. He had then been sentenced to eight years’ imprisonment, of which half of the term was suspended for five years. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  