Correspondent Magistrate's Court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Seven people appeared in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Wednesday after R8m worth of chemicals and drugs were seized during a raid. They have been charged with the manufacturing of and dealing in drugs. The group was arrested during a joint raid by the Hawks' serious organised crime investigation unit and Crime Intelligence's counter narcotics division in Pretoria on Monday. "The team has spent several months monitoring the activities of the group," Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said in a statement. "Over the course of the investigation, it became apparent that the suspects were manufacturing methamphetamine (tik) from a fully equipped clandestine drug laboratory at a rented plot in Welbekend." During the raid drug-manufacturing equipment, precursor chemicals and drugs worth millions were confiscated. The accused are still in police custody and will make another court appearance on July 4 for a formal bail application. Mulaudzi added that another operation by the Hawks' serious corruption investigation unit in Durban and Crime Intelligence had led to the arrest of two Hilton flying squad members. Captain Edward Ngcobo, 57, and Sergeant Shannan Butting, 37, are out on R800 bail each after they appeared in the Durban Specialised Commercial Crime Court on Tuesday. "It is alleged that the two officers routinely stole large amounts of dagga to resupply to the streets. The 'recycling' business by the two was allegedly highly active and lucrative and never saw any of the dagga dealers whose loot was stolen behind bars," said Mulaudzi. They are facing charges of corruption and defeating the ends of justice. Ngcobo and Butting are expected to be back in court on July 7. Lieutenant General Lebeya said the investigation demonstrated the police's unwavering determination to disrupt and dismantle drug traffickers and drug organisations that operate in the country. "These officers are not a reflection of the majority of the men and women in the SAPS (South African Police Service) who work hard every day. While we accept that the members are innocent until proven otherwise, we shall not hesitate to ensure that those who are involved in criminal activities are visited." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  