Tshidi Madia Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane (Lisa Hnatowicz, Gallo Images, Beeld) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Land expropriation, South Africa's ailing economy and gender-based violence are some of the issues which are expected to be discussed during the Cabinet lekgotla this week. The two-day gathering, currently under way in Pretoria, focused on the state of the economy on Day One. Speaking to journalists, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said President Cyril Ramaphosa had already delivered an overview of the tasks at hand, while Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene had delivered a fiscal overview. ALSO READ: Agri SA to keep eye on ANC's plans around expropriation of 139 farms "The main clarion call is about action and implementation of all outstanding decisions and making sure we have a stimulus package that will ignite our economy to grow," said Mokonyane. She added that the primary focus was to include women and young people, and to create an enabling environment for investors who want to invest in the country. Mokonyane said the government's land intervention was aimed at growing the economy. ALSO READ: Land: The people speak: CRC doesn't want to preempt that Constitution will be amended Last week, in his capacity as ANC president, Ramaphosa announced that the party had moved to push for a constitutional amendment to make way for land expropriation without compensation. The land issue stems from an ANC resolution taken at its 54th national elective conference in December – which it previously argued was not necessary because the Constitution, in its current form, allowed expropriation without compensation. "[It's about] transforming the economy of our country and dealing with the primary objective contained in our own Constitution of building a non-racial, integrated but very prosperous South Africa. And that is reflected in the fiscal overview by Minister Nhlanhla Nene," said Mokonyane.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  