Derrick Spies, Correspondent Minibus taxi. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANC members of the Western Cape legislature and the SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) have appealed to commuters to give them space to continue discussions, after meetings on Friday failed to deliver conclusive results. The talks follow after a taxi strike in the province, over a leadership dispute, was provisionally called off on Tuesday. READ: Cape taxi strike called off On June 6, the Western Cape High Court ordered that Santaco convene the conference to resolve the taxi industry's leadership issues and specific clauses in the Santaco constitution. However, the Minibus Taxi Industry Task Team (MTITT) claimed Santaco refused to honour the order. Taxi associations in the province were of the view that their concerns were not being reflected on a national level, which has caused a "leadership vacuum" and decreased interaction between provincial and regional structures. ALSO READ: At least three buses torched in Khayelitsha as taxi strike expected to start On Friday the ANC continued with its mediation intervention and met with Santaco National, Santaco Western Cape and with the MTITT. In a joint statement, the organisations said the meetings took place in a very positive spirit, with the objective of bringing about a solution in the interests of the commuters, and in the promotion of a stable and safe taxi industry. "These meetings have, however, not been able to reach conclusive outcomes and, for this reason, the parties have agreed to rather continue with discussions," the statement said. "It is our appeal to the public in general and commuters in particular to allow the parties the space to build on progress made today. We are convinced that a solution is possible and will confidently pursue this process." The ANC made it clear that its role was simply to assist in the interests of the commuters and the entire industry, and not to interfere in the governance of the industry. Santaco also expressed their appreciation to the ANC for their role in the matter. "We want to assure the commuters in the Western Cape, that it remains our commitment as Santaco to restore a stable environment through our engagements with taxi structures in the province," they said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  