Mxolisi Mngadi KZN Premier Willies Mchunu (City Press). Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories KwaZulu-Natal residents are not satisfied with the provincial government's efforts to eradicate fraud and corruption. This is according to the analytical report of the province's 2018 Citizen Satisfaction Survey released by Statistician General Risenga Maluleke in Durban on Friday. According to the survey, 52.8% of the residents said the province's performance in eradicating fraud and poverty was poor, while 28.4% rated it as fair and only 18.9% said it was good. Maluleke said the report presented a selection of key findings based on data that was collected by Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) through the survey conducted over the months of April and May 2018. More than 22 000 households in the province participated. The survey revealed that 65.5% of the residents were satisfied with the performance of the province in providing education and 52.4% of them were happy with the healthcare provided by the provincial government. Province commended for requesting survey Thirty-nine percent of residents were completely dissatisfied with the overall performance of the provincial government, with 31.9% "somewhat satisfied", while only 29.1% were completely satisfied, according to the report. The residents wanted the provincial government to prioritise job creation, provision of housing and fighting corruption, respectively, according to the report. The top six issues most complained about by the citizens are water and sanitation, electricity, clinics, affordable housing, crime and corruption and road maintenance. The survey focused on three Batho Pele principles: namely, value for money, courtesy and information. Maluleke commended the province for being the only province to have regularly and voluntarily requested Stats SA to conduct such a survey. Premier Willies Mchunu said his government now knew what the main concerns of the people in KwaZulu-Natal were. Province 'reflecting' on results "We now know how we have performed since the last survey in 2015. The purpose of this survey has been achieved," he said. "Our teams will be engaging with these findings extensively, starting today and over the next few weeks to shape the future of our province with our communities. "These teams need to embrace all our stakeholders as we are mindful that we can achieve much more effectively through partnerships. While we reflect on the results and are informed of new opportunities and strategies, we must be mindful of the need to expedite delivery as we remain committed to deliver our Vision 2035." He also expressed his gratitude to the residents for their participation in the survey. "We are most grateful to Stats SA for this quality work in conducting this survey. Let me also take this opportunity to thank all our citizens for providing us with their feedback through this survey. Your opinion matters to us and we need this to improve," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  