Lavern De Vreis Khulile Vilakazi-Ofosu and Caroline Hlahla. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Your little one’s sixth birthday is fast approaching and
you’ve racked your brain trying to find the perfect present for your princess.
She desperately wants a doll but you’re worried the unrealistically skinny and
busty variety available at most toy stores may give her the wrong message about
what it means to be beautiful. A doll is usually a child’s first friend and
plays an essential role in shaping their identity. Playing with dolls not only
helps develop a child’s social and fine-motor skills but also shapes their
identity and self-esteem. Luckily you no longer need to worry about your child
being brainwashed by Barbie – there’s a whole range of racially diverse dolls
on the market now to make your precious poppet feel special. African Doll Khulile
Vilakazi-Ofosu and Caroline Hlahla initially came together to build a hair
company that specialises in 100% natural hair extensions to suit African
women’s hair. But when Khulile’s daughter started wanting blonde, flowing locks
a new business was born. She wanted to give her child something that resembled her –
a doll she could be proud to own instead of something impossible to aspire to.
The South African entrepreneur and her British business partner created the
Sibahle Collection, a range of dolls representing children from African and Caribbean
heritage. Sibahle means “We are beautiful” in isiZulu. “Our doll isn’t just
another Barbie that’s painted black. We decided to make a doll that has a flat
nose and a large forehead, with the features and hair of a typical black girl,”
Khulile says. “We hope the doll’s hair will teach our children how to take
care of their own natural hair from a young age and to love the skin they’re
in.” According to their website, bebouncehair.com, Caroline and Khulile initially
battled to get their idea off the ground. They faced constant rejection from
manufacturers who told them “black dolls don’t sell”. Yet the dynamic duo
has sold out twice since their March 2017 launch. “The majority of our
clientele are black middle-class parents in SA, Zimbabwe, Caribbean heritage.
Sibahle means “We are beautiful” in isiZulu. “Our doll isn’t just another
Barbie that’s painted black. We decided to make a doll that has a flat nose and
a large forehead, with the features and hair of a typical black girl,” Khulile
says. “We hope the doll’s hair will teach our children how to take
care of their own natural hair from a young age and to love the skin they’re
in.” According to their website, bebouncehair.com, Caroline and Khulile
initially battled to get their idea off the ground. They faced constant
rejection from manufacturers who told them “black dolls don’t sell”. Yet the
dynamic duo has sold out twice since their March 2017 launch. “The majority of
our clientele are black middle-class parents in SA, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Nigeria,
Europe and the USA. About 15% of our sales are made to white parents.” The Nobuhle doll is one of their bestsellers and retails
online for about R650. The duo have paired up with two local designers – one
operates from her garage and the other is a stay-at-home mom who sews from her
dining room table – to grow their business. Khulile and Caroline have also included a doll with albinism
named Zuri in their collection because “we’re passionate about speaking out for
those that have been previously ignored by the beauty world.” IsiZulu-speaking Doll This newcomer was
recently launched by toy giant Prima Toys and has become talk of the town. Baby
Thando is a softbodied doll with a carefully selected skin tone and can utter
25 phrases. “We tried to ensure
we created the right skin tone for Baby Thando, a tone that most South African
children can identify with,” says Sphe Zikode , brand manager of Prima Toys. Baby Thando first says a phrase in English, then follows it
up with the isiZulu translation, Sphe says. “The fact that she also has an
educational aspect is a huge plus for both parents and children. “She’s the perfect companion for children who want to learn
English, a language which is not their mother tongue. She also provides the
opportunity for children to start speaking isiZulu or add to their vocabulary.” Baby Thando’s phrases include “I love you/Ngiyakuthanda”,
“I’m hungry/ Ngilambile”, Please tell me a story/ Ngicela ungixoxele inganekwane”
and “Mommy, please pick me up/Mama ngicela ungiphakamise”. She speaks with the push of a button on her belly. “Playing is a child’s primary and most important job as it
is both essential to development – cognitive and motor – and hugely
beneficial,” says Sphe. Baby Thando forms part of Prima’s The Baby Love Range. It
includes Afrikaan s - speaking Baba Tasha and Baby Bella that says 50 English
phrases – and the toy company isn’t stopping there. “We are exploring producing the doll in other African
languages to extend our offering of the Baby Love speaking-doll range,” Sphe
says. Each doll costs around R699 and comes with a plate, spoon, fork, bottle
and dummy. Doll with albinism Mala Bryan wept when
she read stories of albino children who had been murdered and mutilated for
their body parts. “They will always be targets just because of their skin
condition and the belief they have healing powers. People with albinism are
being butchered because some people think if you get their bone or finger
you’ll be rich,” she says. The West Indiesborn former supermodel, who launched her
Malaville Dolls collection to celebrate black beauty back in 2016, created a
doll to celebrate albinism, Alexa. “Alexa is very important because all children need dolls
they can relate to. But she’s very important to me because I believe she can
help create awareness for people with albinism,” Mala says. On the Cape Town-based entrepreneur’s website,
malavilletoys.com, Alexa is described as “that friend who will always be there
for you”. Alexa costs about R400 online. Vitiligo Doll She was mercilessly mocked for her skin condition and
bullied for years in a world that shuns imperfection. But Winnie Harlow is
proud of the skin that sets her apart from the rest. At the age of four the
Canadian beauty was diagnosed with vitiligo – the same pigmentation condition
Imbewu: The Seed actress Leleti Khumalo has. Winnie battled childhood bullies
to become one of the biggest names in the modelling industry. “The only reason I didn’t like my skin was because I was
told it wasn’t what’s right. Or I was told it wasn’t normal. But who’s to say
that? Eventually I learnt my opinion of myself matters so much more than anyone
else’s and I wish I’d known it earlier.” Her self-acceptance hasn’t only
empowered girls to love themselves – it’s inspired a young woman to create a
doll to reflect girls and women who have the condition. American artist Kay
Black creates handmade porcelain dolls with a wide range of skin tones.
Inspired by Winnie, Kay accepts orders from women who have the skin condition
and customises them to look like the owner. The vitiligo dolls are sold online from $127 (R1 550) and
have caught the attention of celebrities such as actress Tia Mowry and stand-up
comedian Mike Epps, who says Kay is “breaking barriers” with her dolls. Kay is
delighted to make her customers happy. “People are literally in tears when they
get their dolls,” she tells US People magazine. “I want to create dolls
everyone can relate to. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  