Canny Maphanga Rhodes University. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Rhodes University has issued a notice to suspend 23-year-old Khensani Maseko's alleged rapist. In a statement issued on Monday evening, the institution's spokesperson Veliswa Mhlope said: "A notice to suspend the alleged perpetrator was issued this morning, on the day when Khensani was due to meet with the support and an investigation team. "The tragic passing of Khensani will not mark an end to the investigation into the circumstances leading up to her passing." Mhlophe said the institution was working with the police as well as the National Prosecuting Authority and pushing for an inquest to be held into her death. READ: Shock, anger and condolences in wake of Rhodes student Khensani Maseko's death The university's Vice Chancellor, Dr Sizwe Mabizela, lowered the institution's flag on Monday morning in commemoration of the third year Bachelor of Arts student's death. The flag would fly at half-mast until her funeral. It is suspected that Maseko took her own life on Friday after battling with depression; following the alleged rape said to have occurred in May. According to Mhlophe, Maseko reported the rape on July 30. "The University immediately made contact with her family and they travelled the next day from Johannesburg to Grahamstown for a meeting where they elected to take Khensani home for a while. "It was also agreed at the meeting that Rhodes University will follow up on the matter. "Khensani was due to return to the University for a meeting with the support and investigation team today [Monday]," Mhlophe said. NO ONE DESERVES TO BE RAPED!! A post shared by  Khensani Maseko (@_khensani_) on Aug 3, 2018 at 5:20am PDT  ?? A post shared by  Khensani Maseko (@_khensani_) on Aug 3, 2018 at 1:54am PDT  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  