Mxolisi Mngadi ANC flag. (Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Moses Mabhida regional elective conference of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has been postponed "until further notice". The conference was one of two regional conferences that were supposed to take place on Thursday. ANC KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu told News24 on Thursday that the decision to postpone the conference was taken on Wednesday evening. "Some comrades within the regional task team or the planning team had gone to court because they were unhappy with certain issues. When the leadership engaged with those comrades and leaders it became clear that it was important that there should be engagement between the leadership of the province and the comrades in the region in preparation for the conference," she said. READ: ANC KZN Top 5 elected after shaky start to conference She said the disgruntled members had complained that only one faction of the 22-member task team had participated in the preparations for the conference. Simelane-Zulu said the postponement did not mean that the conference was not going to be held anymore: "It just means it's delayed a bit, so the planning can be done together." She said the decision to postpone was taken around 17:00 on Wednesday and, "The aggrieved members had to withdraw their court challenge." READ: KZN ANC in bid to avoid bloody split The Moses Mabhida regional executive committee was disbanded following infighting. It's one of the regions that played a huge role in the disbandment of the previous provincial executive committee. The region had challenged the results of the 2015 provincial conference which led to the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Pietermaritzburg ruling that the results of the November 2015 elective conference were unlawful. The Harry Gwala regional conference is set to go ahead on Thursday, she said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  