Iavan Pijoos The couple during an earlier court appearance. (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The man dubbed the "Springs monster", who is accused of the decade-long abuse of his five children, was found guilty in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria on Thursday. Judge Eben Jordaan found the man guilty of raping his oldest daughter, who was 16 at the time, the attempted murder of his then 11-year-old son, defeating the ends of justice, obstruction of justice, five counts of child abuse and five counts of child neglect. The man was also found guilty of dealing in drugs and the possession of drugs. He was however found not guilty for possession and manufacturing of explosives. READ: 'Springs monster' breaks down during wife’s testimony Jordaan found the man's ex-wife guilty of defeating the ends of justice, obstruction of justice, five accounts of child neglect and being in possession of drugs. She was found not guilty of attempted murder of the son, possession and manufacturing of explosives, and five counts of child abuse and not guilty on dealing in drugs. Abuse details Police arrived at their house in Springs, on the East Rand, in May 2014, after the man's son ran to a neighbour for help. The father was arrested on May 23. While delivering his judgment, Jordaan highlighted some of the abuse the children suffered at the hands of the man. Jordaan said the man admitted that he touched the girl's private parts only once. This was two months prior to his arrest, and the man previously denied that she was his child. However, the daughter admitted that he tried to touch her private parts on four occasions. At one stage he could not penetrate her, because she told him it was too sore. She also admitted that he kissed and sucked her private parts. At a separate incident he put his hands in her pants and put his finger in her private parts, he also scratched her. She was bleeding for two days. She told the police at the time that some boys who lived in their yard tried to have sex with her. She however later said she made false testimonies to the police because she wanted to protect the man. Jordaan said he had an opportunity to listen to her testimony in court and found that she was trustworthy. He also referred to the time when the man handcuffed the boy between two pillars and pepper-sprayed him. The children only ate noodles, bread and slap chips. They also had no friends, did not attend school and slept on dirty matrasses. The house was also flooded with rats. They were also responsible for the cleaning of the house, where the daughter was exposed to pornography. The ex-wife's bail was extended while the man remained in custody. The case was postponed to October 1 for pre-sentencing. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  