Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 Chad Basson Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories He has been hailed a hero after selflessly using his own body as a human shield following a drive-by shooting on Saturday 28 July. Attending a friend’s 21st, the group of friends were outside the Marigold Street home at 05:15 when tragedy struck. “Lentegeur police received a complaint of a shooting in Marigold Street. On arrival at the scene police saw a 19-year-old, who had been shot multiple times in his head. The deceased had passed away on the scene. Two other victims were also found having sustained gunshot wounds, the first victim, aged 20, was shot in the right upper leg and the second victim, aged 24, had been shot in his upper left leg,” says police spokesperson, Captain Ian Williams­. The men were taken to hospital for treatment. “Police recovered cartridges and a projectile at the scene. It is alleged the deceased and victims were sitting in front of the house when a white VW Golf with an unknown registration, pulled up and started shooting at the victims. The victims ran into the yard, but the shooter followed them and shot at them. The motive for the attack is unknown. No persons have been arrested and police are investigating a case of murder and two cases of attempted murder,” says Williams. Following his death, the community have mourned the loss of the bright young man who recently matriculated from Portland High School. There had also been an outcry on social media. Ward 76 councillor Goawa Timm also arranged a march with local children walking from the home where he was killed to his home, where they were met with residents during a memorial service­.­ Police are urging residents to come forward with information that could lead to an arrest. V 
  Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact the investigating officer detective Constable Ricardo Louw on 082 411 2382. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  