Kaveel Singh Stun grenades were used to disperse a group of protesting Bonteheuwel residents in Cape Town on Wednesday morning. City of Cape Town Traffic Services spokesperson Richard Coleman said stun grenades were fired at the group at Jakes Gerwel Drive and Jakkalsvlei Road. The protest had left several roads closed on Wednesday, with tensions climbing between protesters and police. Coleman said there was no access to Bonteheuwel from Jakes Gerwel and Valhalla Drives. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said public order policing units and other law enforcement agencies are on the scene.He also added that no arrests have been made. "[Public order policing units] acted when the community became violent. No one has been arrested so far [and] police will remain in the area."  Coleman said Valhalla Drive was also closed between Robert Sobukwe Road and Owen Road with officers on scene diverting traffic. Residents vowed to take to the streets after an apparent minibus taxi shooting claimed the life of a 40-year-old man over the weekend, in ongoing violence that has claimed six lives recently. READ: Angry Bonteheuwel residents to protest near intersection where man was killed  He was shot on the corner of Jakkalsvlei Avenue and Jakes Gerwel Drive during a taxi meeting on Saturday. He later died in hospital. The protest is expected to continue until 10:00 on the intersections of Jakkalsvlei Avenue and Jakes Gerwel Drive, Bluegum Road and Jakes Gerwel Drive, and Jakkalsvlei Avenue and Valhalla Drive. Ward councillor Angus McKenzie previously said that the protest, of no more than 250 people, would not obstruct pedestrian entrances or traffic. ALSO READ: Pregnant woman shot and injured in ongoing Bonteheuwel gang war He added that those attending the protest had been advised to remain peaceful. Residents took to the streets holding signs and placards calling for more action against violent gang members in the community. On Sunday, the Western Cape Flying Squad apprehended eight suspects in a white minibus and recovered a 9mm pistol inside the vehicle. READ MORE: 8 arrested for Cape Town taxi shooting after victim dies in hospital Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk had said that the shooting took place during a meeting between two taxi associations and prospective members. The initial charge of attempted murder was amended to murder after the victim died in hospital.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  