Mxolisi Mngadi The driver of this VW Polo was shot dead in Tongaat. (Supplied, Reaction Unit South Africa) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A group of protesters from Hangberg in Hout Bay set several harbour buildings on fire on Sunday, following the alleged shooting of a local man by police on Saturday. Watch.WATCH A man has been shot dead and three others have been wounded at the Tongaat CBD, north of Durban on Tuesday. The shooting occurred at about 14:30, said Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. He said police found a VW Polo in the CBD with four men who had gunshot wounds. Zwane said the vehicle's driver was already dead when police arrived. "It is alleged that there was an exchange of gunfire between the VW Polo occupants and the security guards who were in a Toyota Hilux bakkie. The motive for the shooting is unknown," Zwane said. A case of murder and attempted murder has been opened at the Tongaat police station. "No arrests had been made at this stage," he said. Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) spokesperson Prem Balram said they received several calls from the public reporting multiple shots being fired near the Nedbank intersection. He said when RUSA officers arrived they found that the VW Polo had crashed into a tree on the side of the road. The driver had sustained a gunshot wound to his back and died at the scene, according to Balram. "Two other occupants in the vehicle had also sustained gunshot wounds and were treated by paramedics from a private ambulance service. A fourth person was found with a gunshot wound to his face approximately one kilometre away from the scene in the vicinity of the Tongaat Crematorium," Balram said. He said the man had fled towards Plein Street where he was located by police. "It is alleged that the shooting could also be related to taxi violence," added Balram. However, Zwane said police could not be drawn on this yet as investigations were still underway.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  