Nompilo Gwala (PHOTO: Gallo/Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The police have
arrested one woman who was caught with drugs found in a Kellogg cornflakes
cereal boxes in her luggage at OR Tambo International Airport. Speaking to DRUM Lieutenant
Colonel Katlego Mogale said, “The suspect was caught
before she could check in her luggage at the counter. Her luggage was searched
and boxes of Kellogg’s corn flakes cereal which contained sachets containing
white powder suspected to be crystal meth were found concealed in the boxes.” In the past few days, the police have arrested four alleged drug and abalone
traffickers aged between 21 and 45 years at OR Tambo including the women caught
with Kellogg’s corn flakes cereal boxes with drugs. A multi-disciplinary team had been placed
at the operating entrance at the OR Tambo International Airport to prevent and
combat crime to arrest suspects for
various crimes. The team recovered drugs worth millions in different incidents,
according to Mogale. In another incident,
Lieutenant Colonel Mogale said that the team were on a
look out for any suspicious activities and a man who realized he was being
watched ran off to the basement where his car was parked. He was followed by
the team and drugs were found weighing 6.2Kg with street value estimate of 1.98
million. The suspect was placed under arrest for possession of suspected drugs. A third suspect was also arrested at the
airport.  He was found with suspected
cocaine weighing 3.4kg and estimated to be about R940 000 when his luggage was
searched.  The last suspect was arrested as he arrived at the airport. His luggage was found
containing 17kg of ephedrine
with an estimated street value of R690 000.
Preliminary investigation revealed that his name did not appear on the
passenger list. “The suspects have since appeared in court and
further investigations are continuing,” said Lieutenant Colonel Katlego Mogale.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  