Tshidi Madia (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The provincial executive committee (PEC) of the SA Communist Party (SACP) in Gauteng wants the ANC in the province to set up an alliance integrity commission to block corruption, maladministration and what it calls the "Makariki" faction. The party made the announcement on Thursday after its PEC lekgotla last weekend. The Makariki faction is seen as a reference to ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe. Karikis are three-wheelers that a company linked to Mabe is providing in Gauteng. The Special Investigative Unit (SIU) is probing the multi-million-rand contract. READ: SIU to investigate company associated with ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe "The PEC lekgotla resolved to engage alliance partners to establish a Provincial Alliance Integrity Commission empowered to act as the final clearing house on all matters relating to the deployment of all cadres to organs of the state," said SACP provincial secretary Jacob Mamabolo. He said the SACP felt it was important for the ANC's allies to be part of an integrity commission that was efficient and decisive to protect Gauteng's government from being exposed to corruption, maladministration and looting. This pronouncement comes after the ANC in Gauteng elected a new leadership collective, spearheaded by Premier David Makhura. The new ANC PEC included disgraced former health MECs Qedani Mahlangu and Brian Hlongwa. Mahlangu was hauled before the party's integrity committee for her role in the Life Esidimeni tragedy, which resulted in the deaths of at least 144 psychiatric patients after they were transferred from the institution to several unlicensed NGOs. Hlongwa was implicated, in an SIU report, along with other officials, in corrupt activities to the tune of R1.2bn during his tenure at the health department between 2006 and 2009. The ANC had asked for the public to give the party more time to resolve both issues. "We believe that an alliance integrity commission as opposed to that of the ANC only, will ensure that cadres [who] are on the wrong side of integrity, moral and ethical values [ are dealt with] without fear or prejudice," said Mamabolo. The SACP also said it believed that, through the proposed integrity committee, the alliance movement would be able to "decisively" root out all forms of corporate capture, claiming it has already seen the emergence of a factional tendency in the province, which publicly attacked the ANC's provincial government. "We were then shocked when it later emerged that this factional tendency faces serious allegations of corporate capture of the state in the North West government for the supply of Gupta-linked mobile clinics," said the SACP. It was referring to Mabe, whose host of companies and patents, which included Enviro Mobi and Kariki Media were part of a R49m tender awarded by the North West government. "We were further shocked that this very same factional tendency has now allegedly extended its tentacles to our province in a disputed tender to supply Karikis for the cooperatives in the waste recycling sector," continued Mamabolo. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  