Iavan Pijoos Magistrate's Court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The case of two men arrested in connection with a cash-in-transit heist in Bloemfontein last week was postponed in the Bloemfontein Magistrate's Court on Monday. According to Free State National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Phaladi Shuping, the State was in the process of obtaining bail information. As a result, the case was postponed. ALSO READ: Claims of police assault as bail hearing for 4 accused in Soweto cash-in-transit heist gets underway Both accused were arrested last week. One of the men, 38-year-old Katiso Lepotla, was arrested on Wednesday. At the time, he had been driving a white BMW X5, which had no registration details, along Nelson Mandela Drive in Bloemfontein. Officers followed him to Bloemgate complex in Brandwag, where he was stopped. He was allegedly found in possession of an R5 rifle, an LM5 rifle and a pistol, rifle magazines and ammunition, a pistol magazine and ammunition, a hand radio and an undisclosed amount of cash. The serial numbers of the weapons had allegedly been filed off. 'Leaving law to take its course' Police spokesperson Colonel Thandi Mbambo said at the time that officers also found a bag of equipment, which they suspected had been used during the heist and in armed robberies. "The driver failed to produce a licence to possess those firearms," Mbambo said. The X5 allegedly belonged to the Free State ANC's new deputy chairperson, William Bulwane. ALSO READ: Free State ANC's deputy chairperson William Bulwane's vehicle involved in cash-in-transit heist Bulwane told News24 on Sunday that he handed his vehicle over to a panel beater after an accident in May this year. He said he was shocked when police told him that his car had been found. "I don't want to comment now because the matter is with the Hawks. They are working on it. I have taken my car for a repair and the man used it for other things that were not an agreement between myself and himself, so I am leaving that to the law to take its course," he said. The second accused, Thabang Mahlaba, was arrested in Bloemfontein on Friday after a Hawks investigation. The case has been postponed to August 20.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  