Aishah Cassiem @Aishah_Cassiem Abdu Dayaan Roode. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The families of two boys who lost their lives in a quad bike accident last Saturday are still trying to come to terms with their loss. Abdu Dayaan Roode from Hanover Park and Qiyaam Stemmet from Parkwood, both nine, were laid to rest according to Islamic rites the next day, as family and friends paid their last respects. It is believed the bike the boys were riding on crashed into a wall in Lynburg Road. Abdu Dayaan, who had lived in Lynburg Road, died on impact and Qiyaam, who suffered multiple head injuries, passed away in hospital a few hours later. According to Abdu Dayaan’s father, Emraan Roode, the family does not know who owns the bike the boys were riding, but he confirms that neither boy was wearing a helmet or protection at the time of the accident. Philippi police are currently investigating a case of culpable homicide and are calling on the public to come forward with any information in this regard. JP Smith, Mayco member for safety, security and social services, says that by law, no child should be allowed to ride a quad bike on their own and that quad bikes are not “street legal”. “We were sad about the deaths. We empathise with the family’s loss. We were informed that the two youngsters had been riding the quad bike without supervision, although I cannot confirm that. “We pointed out that quad bikes are not allowed on streets or public places. “We also repeatedly remind parents that the safety of their children is their responsibility and if it is true that the children were unsupervised, then that may have created a dangerous situation for them.” Smith warned that action may be taken against the owners of the vehicle. V 
  If you have any information with regard to the quad bike incident, call Philippi Police Station on 021 690 1517.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.