Mahlohonolo Magadla Photo: Screenshot from viral Twitter video Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Central University of Technology has confirmed that one of its students has died after jumping from the rooftop of Loch Logan Waterfront Mall on Saturday evening. A video of the student running and then jumping form the building has gone viral on Twitter. Speaking to DRUM, spokesperson of the University, Dan Maritz identified the young man as Lerothodi Joseph Mokati who had been a first year student pursuing  a Diploma in Tourism Management at the University. “He was our first year student and resided in Bloemside, Bloemfontein.  As a University, we have never had a tragedy of this nature in the past, and we are extremely shocked by what has happened to our student, Mr Mokati, he said. According to Media Liaison officer, Lieutenant Colonel Thabo Covane from the Park Road Police Station, On Saturday, 18 August ,Park Road received a call that there is a person who wants to commit suicide at Waterfront, First Avenue, Willows, Bloemfontein. The patrol van then attended and on arrival received a report from Mr Sample van Schalkwyk, an employee of Fidelity Security that there is a young African Male who jumped from the roof top of Waterfront into the water. Mr Van Schalkwyk alleges that he was on duty patrolling and when he got to the roof part of Waterfront noticed a young male wearing black pair of jeans, black shoes, hooded yellow top and white hat. The young man had a black school bag and a file with him. Van Schalkwyk called his supervisor Wellem and they both tried to persuade the young man to stop his planned action. Schalkwyk alleges that it was 6 PM when the young man jumped into the water. Before he jumped he dropped his school bag and file on the ground. Covane also said that the police identified the deceased from the file he was carrying. “The police arrived and from his personal file it was discovered that his name is Lerothodi Joseph Mokati. The police diving unit arrived and retrieved the body from the water. ER24 personnel certified him dead. The body was the taken to government mortuary where the post-mortem will be conducted. He was a student at Central University of Technology. The police went to his home and found only the grandmother. The mother visited Park Road Police Station on Sunday.” Although the eyewitness evidence points to suicide,  CUT spokesperson Maritz said that this was not yet confirmed. “We cannot make speculations as to what could have happened at this point in time, but we consider this as a very unfortunate incident which our law enforcement will help us to settle this matter.” He further sent a message of condolences to the deceased’s family and friends and said that the tragedy had affected the University. “We are deeply saddened by untimely passing of our own; especially in the view of what happened.  His untimely passing is not only a loss to family, but also to the university community.  Our thoughts go out to the family, friends and fellow student in this moment of grief,” “Our thoughts and prayers are with the family who are understandably bereft of all hope during this dark hour of their family life.  On behalf of the University we wish to convey our deepest condolences to the family of Mr Mokati and our students who are equally in pain over the tragic loss of a friend and fellow student,” he said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  