Avril Fillies TheTears bookshop in Valyland. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The desperate state of dogs and cats in Masiphumelele motivated three women to start The Emma Animal Rescue Society (Tears) in Valyland in a quest to alleviate the suffering of the animals in impoverished areas. Armed with a bucket of tick dip and a packet of de-worming tablets Emma Geary-Cooke, Joan Bown and Marilyn Hoole visited Masiphumelele and realised that the bucket and packet would not be enough to treat all the animals they found in Masiphumelele. “The three wanted to help the animals but on a much larger and more effective scale and started the clinic in 1999 in Masiphumelele. “Tears was later able to move to rented premises at 4 Lekkerwater Road in Sunnydale and has grown into an established and sustainable non-profit organisation with a compliment of over 50 staff caring for around 300 dogs and cats on site at any given time,” says Tinka Shapiro, manager at Tears. In 2007 Tears bought Wenga Farm, which houses the Tears cattery, its boarding facility, the Feral Cat Project and a small clinic. “Tears is depending on sponsors and donors and to help with the funding we opened the charity shops, where you can buy books for R100 and the money generated goes to maintaining the clinics. The Valyland Bookshop was established in September 2015 and the Charity Centre in Retreat in March 2015 and it has an extensive book section,” Shapiro says. The bookshop’s history goes back to the days of the old Sun Valley Mall and has evolved into the Valyland shop. “We rely 100% on donations from our supporters. When the books are dropped off at any of the shops, they are sorted, categorised and stocked into the shops and you can find almost anything,” she says. The books received include everything from mass market fiction to classics and collectibles. “It is amazing the variety of titles that get donated to Tears in support of the animals. Donations can be dropped off at any of our shops, the kennels or the cattery, and we even pick up larger donations. We look for donations in any shape or form. Anything that can be sold we will sell to raise money for the work that Tears does,” Shapiro says. The “hunt” for books when you visit the shops refers to the hunt for rare or interesting books. “The hunt is more fun for that rare or interesting book is more fun in a charity shop where you never know what you will find. The joy of secondhand bookshops is that a surprise find can be on the next shelf,” Shapiro says. Whether you are an avid reader, an enthusiast, or even a collector, the Tears bookshops offer something for everyone. “We pride ourselves that our bookshops, both at Valyland and in Retreat, provide a friendly, professional and knowledgeable experience of previously loved books. It’s all about finding what you are looking for as well as what you never knew existed. The thrill is in the hunt!” she says. “The money generated from the sale of the books goes towards the operating costs of Tears including the feeding and care of our dogs and cats, but also the clinic costs. From the clinic Tears supports animals in lower income communities and animals on the fringes of society. “Income from Tears’ retail operations represent the single biggest income source on a monthly basis. As such, support of our bookshops goes directly to the animals and animals in need around the southern peninsula. “When visiting the bookshops fill a plastic bag, supplied by the shop, for only R100 and I can guarantee you you’ll find something there for everyone,” Shapiro says. V 
  Contact Tinka on 074 148 8220. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  