Pule Letshwiti Screenshot from video Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A video showing members of Farmers United of South Africa (FUSA) and officials from the Department of Agriculture busting a local convenience store which is believed to have been selling spoilt food, including baby products that allegedly expired in 2016, has gone viral on social media. The video which was taken in a shop in Talrton in West Rand, Gauteng, shows community members removing products from the store and alleging that they’re past their sell by date. Since it went viral the video has started conversation around how local stores can be regulated so that they don’t sell products that could potentially make poor people in townships sick and spread food-borne diseases. The Ministry of Health spokesperson Popo Maja told DRUM that they have not yet received any reports or notifications of an outbreak of any illness that could possibly be linked to food-borne diseases. The National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD), supported the Department of Health with investigations of suspected food-borne disease outbreaks in all provinces and received no reports or notifications of human illness thought to be associated with local stores selling expired foods. Maja also elaborated on how the food-borne disease outbreak in South Africa was typically caused by food contaminated with bacteria. “Food-borne disease outbreaks in South Africa are typically caused by food contaminated with bacteria, viruses or parasites. With regards to concerns about Sudan Red dye, this food colorant is prohibited for use in foods products in South Africa, as per the Regulations Relating to Food Colorants (R.1008) of the Foodstuffs, Cosmetics and Disinfectant Act 54 of 1972,” explained Maja. Nkwanyana Khayelihle, from the Department of Agriculture says they are in the same cluster as the Department of health and work hand in hand. “You’ll remember during the listeriosis outbreak, we decided that the Minister of Health will be the one who communicates. However, behind we were working together because this had to do with the production of food which was managed from agriculture.” He added. President for Farmers United of South Africa Ronnie McKenzie told DRUM that in most cases, all sorts of cold drinks, crisps, food products that are rotten are usually found in some of these local spaza shops, which are based in formal or informal areas. He also explains that people are often not aware that these products are expired. “Our People do not think about reading best before dates before consumption. So as an organisation in the food industry, these problems are part of our concerns. We are South Africans, we need to take care of what happens and what is consumed by our people,” Khayelihle said. However, no case has been opened against the shop in Tarlton which was alleged to be selling spoilt products.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  