Correspondent Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories National Police Commissioner General Kehla Sitole
has been asked to brief Parliament on security measures at police stations and
to protect officers, the Parliamentary Police Committee said on Sunday. “It is evident that some criminal syndicates are
targeting police stations that are not well secured to obtain firearms for
criminal activity,” said committee chairperson Francois Beukman. “Furthermore, the deployment of sufficient members
during the weekend and night shifts is also paramount and station and cluster
commanders should on an on-going basis monitor the effectiveness of security
measures at police stations.” Condemning the killing of two police officers,
Constable Lonwabo Kili and Constable Siyamcela Ncipa,
respectively in Delft and Khayelitsha near Cape Town on Friday, Beukman said it
was clear that the motivation had been to steal guns. Read more here: Two Cape Town cops killed in one night, firearms taken “The committee calls on SAPS to ensure that the
investigation is prioritized to find the killers of the policemen.” Beukman also mentioned concerns with two recent
attacks at police stations in the Eastern Cape. Earlier this month, four armed men who walked into the Kareedouw police station
during the early hours of the morning and held an officer on duty at gunpoint,
before making off with a number of firearms from the safe. Read more here: Huge manhunt after Kareedouw police station robbed of firearms In a separate incident, four balaclava-clad gunmen
walked into a police station in Mthatha
and held officers at gunpoint as they killed a man in police custody. Beukman said the committee was
concerned that there had been apparent delays to plans to install CCTV cameras,
upgrade perimeter fencing and install secure entrance gates at police stations. “Police management should move with speed and determination on this
matter." Tactical training of officers and “pro-active crime
intelligence” is key to deal with the current scourge of criminal activity
targeting them, Beukman said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  