Adriaan Basson and Kyle Cowan Angelo Agrizzi (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A senior former Bosasa executive has threatened to blow the whistle on "racketeering, corruption and money laundering that I have been aware of over the last 18 years". Angelo Agrizzi, the former chief operations officer of the controversial Bosasa group of companies, announced his decision in a press statement sent to various media houses and Bosasa's CEO Gavin Watson on Tuesday night. Bosasa now trades under the name African Global Operations (AGO). Agrizzi says in his statement that he will expose "high-level people, government officials as well as public office bearers currently in government positions, parastatals and state-owned enterprises". The Bosasa group has been implicated in capturing key state functions at the department of correctional services (DCS) during the tenure of former prisons boss, Linda Mti. The company has pocketed billions of rands from providing catering, security and fencing services to the country's prisons. A report by the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) found in 2008 that Bosasa had bribed Mti, former DCS finance chief Patrick Gillingham and other departmental officials. Although the report was handed to the National Prosecuting Authority in 2009, no criminal prosecution has followed the publication of the SIU report and Bosasa has continued to score government work from the departments of justice, home affairs and Airports Company South Africa (Acsa). The company's multi-million rand catering tender was extended during the term of former prisons boss Tom Moyane. Agrizzi was at the heart of the company's dealings with government, working as Watson's close confidante for more than a decade.  "I have decided pursuant to great thought, prayer and consideration to provide comprehensive details on all the activities at the Bosasa group of companies and myself whilst I was employed there. I have tried to not report on the activities in an attempt to potentially save the jobs of the people concerned. It is however in my best interest to disclose the matters to all involved, and I think the most appropriate platform would be the judiciary and the free press which I will be using," his statement reads. Agrizzi says he will disclose information that implicates himself. "I am also fully aware that I have been aware of all the wrongdoings but will tender my full cooperation in resolving the matter, and bringing both clarity and truth to the matter regarding the racketeering, corruption and money laundering that I have been aware of over the last 18 years." Bosasa sponsored former president Jacob Zuma's 73rd birthday party in 2015.  In his statement, Agrizzi says he has received "numerous threats" and has made "the requisite arrangements with various other sources". His decision to blow the whistle will "impact numerous people, but in the interest of our nation, it’s imperative to clarify the points, and make full disclosures". * This is an unfolding story that will be updated with responses from Bosasa/AGO and the NPA, if they react. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  