Msindisi Fengu Leonard Muvhungu and his beloved cows, which he leases to white commercial dairy farmers in the Eastern Cape (City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Africa needs large-scale land reform that will also affect how food is retailed in South Africa, a professor has said at the Landbouweekblad / AgriSA land summit.WATCH A call to share resources and "care for each other"
was central to a "historic" two-day summit to find solutions to the
country’s burning land question last week. On Thursday and Friday, established white commercial farmers
and emerging black farmers gathered at Zwartkloof Private Game Reserve in
Bela-Bela, Limpopo, to share ideas and discuss successes and failures of
different farming models in order to find solutions to the land question. The conference, organised by the magazine Landbouweekblad
and Agri SA, a federation of agricultural organisations, was held amid concerns
that the proposed government policy to expropriate land without compensation
has divided the country. Speakers from different backgrounds, genders and racial
groups hailed partnerships between white commercial farmers, emerging black
farmers and communities as a successful model that could take the country
forward. Others criticised government and commercial banks for not
supporting emerging black farmers with funding to make it in the market. Success stories Some of the summit’s highlights were the stories of success
shared by young emerging black farmers, who partnered with and were mentored by
established white commercial farmers. Among them was Leonard Muvhungu (40), who has made a career
out of dairy farming. Born in Thohoyandou, Limpopo, Muvhungu studied animal
production at the Tshwane University of Technology and moved to the Eastern
Cape in 2005 after completing his training. Through a recruitment agency he joined Amadlelo Agri, which
was established in 2004 by 70 commercial dairy farmers from the Eastern Cape
and KwaZulu-Natal. Amadlelo’s first project was the Fort Hare Dairy Trust,
which it established in 2007 with the University of Fort Hare, and Muvhungu
managed the modern profit-based farm from the beginning. He now manages three
farms of 1 000ha each with 3 500 cattle on them. Muvhungu has been mentored by Amadlelo chief executive Jeff
Every, who at the summit urged his fellow established white commercial farmers
to reach out to help emerging black farmers. "How about sharing and caring? This is what this
country needs right now," he said. Cattle investment Muvhungu also mentors students interested in farming. He
told City Press that he made a decision to be a farmer and had his own business
of leasing his 200 cows to established white commercial dairy farmers. He said
his dairy cattle investment was "far better than putting money into
investment schemes". "It performs better than property. What more do you
want? We need to change the mentality of people." Muvhungu said young black people needed to change the way
they viewed wealth and understand that it was not about having money in the
bank, but assets. Asked what he would do to deal with the land question if he
were the president, he said he would "listen to people and look at working
models, including that of Amadlelo Agri and other partnerships" that
established white commercial farmers, emerging black farmers and communities
have undertaken. He said there was a need to make farming attractive in the
rural areas to stop the exodus of young black people flocking to urban areas
looking for jobs. "We cannot blame young people for going to urban areas.
They need to make a living. They see life in town. That’s why we need to
develop rural areas to become ‘gold mines’," he said. "But the problem first is to make young people
understand how money works. Right now we work for money to work for us. We need
to create businesses. Get a job, learn, make money, start a business and let
the money work for you." Partnerships At the summit, established white commercial farmers said
they and others were willing to help mentor emerging black farmers so they
could become involved in the value chain – which entails introducing them to
suppliers and markets – and help them make profits. But others said there were still established white
commercial farmers who were reluctant to help their black counterparts by
directly investing in their farms, because of the risks and the uncertainty
they face. Muvhungu said government should look at ways of
incentivising established white commercial farmers to partner with emerging
black farmers and communities. He said he had never experienced racism while
working with whites, but some black farmers saw him as a "traitor who
spies for the white men". "Black people need to understand that they have what it
takes. [The involvement of white people] is not about leadership and control.
That’s an insult," he said. "We can do it. We are the same. We have common sense
like everyone. We have brains. There are tools that we can use. What more do we
want?" Nick Serfontein, chairman of the Sernick Group, who wrote an
open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa last month asking him to send
commercial farmers to support emerging black farmers, said government needed to
completely restructure the agriculture sector and create an enabling
environment for established white commercial farmers to assist others. Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
director-general Mike Mlengana said the summit was a "historic event"
that came at the right time, a time when the country was battling with the land
question. He committed his department to involving established white
commercial farmers in every programme to ensure that their skills and expertise
were used. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  