Unathi Obose Phumeza Sizinzo drops a tune as, behind her, from left, Patrick Andries, director of Etafeni Day Care Centre, Zou Kota-Fredricks,deputy minister for Human Settlements, ward councillor Khaya Yozi, Ubunye Youth Foundation’s Anita Mgidi and manager of Women’s Wellness at Etafeni, Teresa Lumani, sing along.PHOTOS: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Scores of women from Nyanga and surrounding areas converged on the Lusaka Community Hall last Friday to celebrate Women’s Month. The event was organised by the Mau-Mau based Etafeni Day Care Centre Trust. Deputy minister for Human Settlements Zou Kota-Fredricks described the event as part of networking and women empowerment­. Nosiseko Mbayeka from Crossroads said women were steadfast in their call against violence meted out to women and girl-children­. “Enough is enough. As women we are tired of being doormats for men ... We need to speak out about domestic violence. Let’s report the perpetrators to law enforcement. We understand there are some women who abuse their husbands and that is not right,” said Mbayeka. She described the event as a platform for them to share their experiences. Kota-Fredricks said women’s month deals with issues facing specifically women in the country. “This event is part of Women’s Day. We are encouraging communities to celebrate and dedicate this month to women. “In 1956 women of all races marched against the pass law, but since we are in a democracy, things have changed. Women face challenges of inequality, poverty, joblessness ... But, most importantly, women face abuse [and] violence committed against them and children,” said Kota-Fredricks. She said the women need to be economically empowered in all sectors to move away from the scourge of violence committed to them. “The majority of South Africans are women. They make 54% of the population and that means most households are led by women. We need to ensure that they are economically empowered. For example, each department must set aside 30% of its budget to women related issues so that we can economically empower women,” she said. Erica Raolane, from Etafeni Day Care Centre Trust, said the event was about bringing awareness to issues affecting women and children. “There is so much femicide going on it’s like a war. Women are being raped, killed and attacked daily. We are no longer protected in our communities.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  