Pule Letshwiti Mduduzi Manana. (Gallo/Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Mduduzi Manana has been criticised for a video he posted on his social media account expressing his support of the #TheTotalShutdown protest, following his own alleged instances of gender-based violence. In the video uploaded on Facebook, Mduduzi called on SA men "to join 
these marches and all other activities planned for this eventful day". His encouragement was in contradiction to the organisers of the march, who stated that men were not welcome to actively participate in Wednesday's march. With August being Women’s Month, thousands of women gathered across the country for the #TheTotalShutdown march against gender-based violence. Last month, the NPA declined to prosecute Mduduzi, 34, for an alleged assault on his former domestic worker, Christine Wiro, earlier this year. That incident came on the back of a 2017 incident where the former ANC MP was caught on video beating up women at a Fourways nightclub. Speaking to DRUM about the video, Javu Baloyi, the spokesperson for the Commission for Gender Equality, condemned the former MP’s actions. "Mduduzi Manana is an opportunist and he shouldn’t have done what he did. There a better ways of offering solidarity without going to Facebook. We believe as a commission he still needs to do a lot of things on himself and work on himself. The bottom line is that it’s too early in the hearts of people for what he has done." According to Baloyi, Manana also appeared not to be remorseful over his actions. Themba Masango, the #NotInMyName secretary general, echoed Javui’s sentiments, saying Mduduzi was looking for relevance. "He shouldn’t have done anything. He should have not gotten involved especially with the #TotalShutDown happening today (Wednesday). He should just keep quiet." DRUM contacted Mduduzi for comment but he didn’t respond. Watch the full video below:  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  