Correspondent Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A
new Cape Town mayor will be elected by the end of September, the Democratic
Alliance said on Saturday. “The FedEx has discussed the process of electing a new Cape Town mayor. The process
will be finalised by the end of September
so that we can ensure a proper handover,” the party’s spokesperson Solly
Malatsi in a statement. The statement was issued
following a meeting of the party’s federal executive which took place earlier
this weekend. Recently, embattled Cape Town
Mayor Patrica De Lille, along with DA party leader, Mmusi Maimane announced her
resignation, effective from October 31. Read more here On Saturday, the party also said that Cape Town officials had ensured that the
city “has become an example of global best practice on how to beat
unprecedented drought conditions”. It
also congratulated its administrations in Johannesburg and Tshwane for making
“great strides in restoring financial stability.” It dismissed unrest in Nelson
Mandela Bay over mayor Athol Trollip as “political gimmicks”. Read more here: Trollip survives as opposition walk out over late agendas The Democratic Alliance also made
pronouncements on several other issues on the national and Southern African
agenda. The party reiterated it would
oppose any attempt at constitutional
amendments in terms of land reforms. It also said that at this point,
it seemed clear that the current ANC policy of Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment “has failed”. It suggested new models needed to
be implemented that ensured it benefited a wider variety of black South African
currently not benefitting. In terms of Zimbabwe’s recent
elections, it said that these experiences offered “valuable lessons to South
Africa that we ignore at our peril”. “The admission by the Zimbabwe
Electoral Commission (ZEC) that it made an error in tallying the votes for the
Presidential election brings into question the validity of the entire election
and the legitimacy of those who were declared as winners.” “This is why the work of a strong
opposition in a multi-party democracy can never be under-estimated,” commented
Malatsi. Also read: 'I was elected cleanly,' Zim President Mnangagwa tells SADC summit 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  