Lubabalo Ngcukana Evelyn Mase's house. (Lubabalo Ngcukana, City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Mandla Mandela wants to restore his late grandmother's
dilapidated house to its former dignified state. Mandla, the eldest grandson of late former president Nelson
Mandela and his first wife, Evelyn Mase, said he would be happy once the house in
the main street in Cofimvaba is restored. The house belonged to Mase, who together with Madiba, had
four children – daughters Makaziwe, who died when she was only nine months old,
and another named after her late sister, as well as sons Thembekile and
Makgatho (Mandla's father). Mase, a nurse by profession, was married to Madiba from 1944
to 1958. Despite its rich history and heritage, Mase's house is now dilapidated
and deserted as no one lives in it. Fond memories "The home is very important to us because we have some
fond memories there. And that is the main reason that we want to restore it and
keep it for family use," Mandla said. He, however, said there were no plans to turn it into a
heritage site or a museum: "It is a private property and it is our house.
We will renovate it as we wish to do so." The Mvezo chief, who is also an ANC MP, could not say when
they expected to start with the renovations. "We still have to work and ensure we raise enough funds
to be able to achieve our goal. But we want to keep it as it was. My
grandmother was a private person and that is the reason we want to make sure it
stays within the family. I will be very happy to see my grandmother's house
restored, to uphold her dignity and legacy," Mandla said. When City Press visited Cofimvaba this week, the house was
in a state of disrepair, with paint peeling off from the walls. The corrugated
iron roof looked old and ruined. The big house looked to be one of the few old houses left in
the small town's main street, as many have been converted into buildings for
businesses. It is not fenced and stray animals could be seen going in and out
of the property, which was littered with dirty plastic bags, papers and old car
tyres. Although Mandla said no one stayed at the house, City Press
noticed a man running out of it. Two people with businesses close to the
property, who did not want to be named, said they feared the place could be a
hideout for criminals. "There are lots of suspicious-looking people going in
and out of the properly during the day and even at night. One wonders what they
are doing and if they are not involved in some criminal activity. Our
businesses are not safe when criminals can have a place to hide right here in
the CBD. It would be better if the owners of the property would sell or at
least fix and rent it out," said one business owner.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  