Jenna Etheridge David Phale, Outsurance Traffic FreeFlow pointsman. (Adam Wakefield, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Johannesburg has announced that it has decided
not to renew a contract which provided privately-sponsored pointsmen at traffic
hotspots. The city's public safety spokesperson, councillor Michael
Sun, said in a statement that the decision was made on August 5, and the last
day of the contract would be on Friday. "This comes as Johannesburg Metropolitan Police
Department (JMPD) upgraded its function and appointed an additional 180 Traffic
Wardens who will be deployed to ensure that traffic continues to be managed
efficiently," he said in a statement. "This process is part of JMPD's legislative and core
mandate to ensure a free-traffic flow while ensuring drive, passenger and
pedestrian safety." Disappointment The decision was met with disappointment by OUTsurance and
Traffic FreeFlow (TFF). Traffic Freeflow founder Colleen Bekker had first approached
the city with the proposal to supply privately sponsored traffic pointsmen. "It’s a very sad day for me personally, all of the
staff of Traffic Freeflow, our 36 sponsors and in particular the motorists of
Johannesburg, who have come to depend on the stellar service the pointsmen have
offered in getting them through sticky traffic every morning and afternoon for
the past 13 years," she said in a statement. The project currently employed 186 pointsmen to service all
JPMD jurisdictions, including the CBD, Fourways, Sandton, Randburg, Midrand and
Soweto. Bekker said the pointsmen were trained by the JPMD and had
served as official reserve traffic wardens. OUTsurance has been the anchor sponsor since inception,
investing over R190m to date for the free service, and a current contribution
of over R20m per year. OUTsurance CEO Danie Matthee said the announcement caught
them off guard. "We were aware that the TFF contract was expiring at
the end of this month and although we had given our written commitment for
another three-year term, we fully accept that it is the City’s prerogative not
to continue availing itself of this free service."  Successful public private partnership TFF CEO Bheki Zondo also said they became aware of the
development at a "rather late stage". "The pointsmen project was dubbed as one of Joburg’s
most successful public private partnerships and we are extremely proud of all
of the brave pointsmen and women who have delivered this hugely loved
service," he said. "TFF has created over 180 value-adding jobs in
Johannesburg, the vast majority of whom were previously unemployed youth from
poor communities. Most of these jobs will unfortunately be lost." Sun said rumours of an impending "traffic chaos"
were unfounded and there would be a smooth transition. "Our position is a simple one, the interest of our
residents comes first. The City of Johannesburg welcomes any constructive and
beneficial partnerships with service providers through proper means. We won’t
be bullied by corporates." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  