Correspondent (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A driver whose car plunged into a river is among three people who have died in a number of accidents in the Durban area on Sunday, said paramedics. The driver, believed to be in his twenties, was killed and his passenger sustained moderate injuries after the vehicle in which they were travelling, hurtled into a river. They had been travelling on Inanda Road in Springfield Park on Sunday morning when the driver apparently lost control. When paramedics came on the scene, "the vehicle was submerged in water", said Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson. The driver was declared dead on the scene.  The passenger survived with moderate injuries and was stabilised on the scene by paramedics. "Once stabilised, a rescue operation was taken to bring the injured man up from the river below by SAPS Search and Rescue and Durban Fire Department." 'Injuries were too severe' Meanwhile, another two accidents happened on the N3 Durban Bound on Sunday afternoon. In the first incident, "just after 13:30, Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene to find that a single vehicle had overturned coming to rest on the side of the busy highway. Six occupants had sustained various injuries and were stabilised on the scene…before being transported to various Durban hospitals". "Whilst the recovery was underway, a secondary collision just after 15:00 occurred when a biker lost control coming to rest in the centre medium," Jamieson said. When paramedics arrived at the accident site they found the man, believed to be in his 50s, in cardiac arrest. "Despite resuscitation efforts, the man’s injuries were too severe and he passed away at the scene." Also on Sunday afternoon, on the M1 near Chatsmed Hospital, a man was killed after he lost control of his car and it overturned. "Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene to find the single vehicle on its roof on the side of the road." The driver had sustained major injuries and was declared dead on the scene. Official investigations into the accidents are underway.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  