Johan Eybers and Zamayirha Peter Adam Catzavelos (via Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Adam Catzavelos, 39, has no "immediate plans" to
return to South Africa. This was according to his father, George Catzavelos, who
this week spoke to City Press' sister publication, Rapport, about the viral
video in which his son expressed his joy that there was not a "single
k****r in sight" on a beach in Greece, where he was on vacation. "All I can say is that the whole storm has changed our
families' lives for the worse, in a blink of an eye. All of a sudden, we are
all lepers. Nobody wants to be associated with us, and our family business is
ruined. We had to permanently close our doors." Following Catzavelos' racist remarks, made as part of a
video he posted of himself on a beach in Greece using the k-word, the
Catzavelos family business, St George's Fine Foods, saw a number of companies
they work with terminate their contracts. Employees at St George's Fine Foods issued a press statement
on Friday in which they begged the restaurants that had terminated their
contracts with the family business to reconsider their decision. Business closed Another of the family's businesses, The Smokehouse and
Grill, situated in Braamfontein, closed for business. This worked in the favour
of neighbouring restaurant as they experienced an instant boom in their
businesses. Tlhompho Mokoena, owner of The Wing Republic – a pop-up
restaurant on the same street as Smokehouse – said: "I don't want to lie,
but this past Wednesday has been the busiest Wednesday we have had in a few
months." Nic Mavro, the jolly and excited owner of Metanoia, a
mixed-Mediterranean restaurant, said they had experienced an influx of
customers this week. Mavro added that they were hoping to hire two more staff to
join their team. "We are a team of six, and last night we got so busy
that we started serving customers complimentary drinks while they waited for
their meals. So yes, we are looking at taking more guys. I don't know the
owners [of Smokehouse] but I would usually interact with their staff, who would
come here after their shift. They are really great guys," said Mavro. But some employees might not be lucky. According to their
statement, they are financially dependent on the family business and they are
now being punished for Adam's conduct. They say that George and Nick, Adam's brother, are not
racist and have always treated their employees like family. The employees said it would be a major scandal if the
business had to close as a result of a single person's conduct. Catzavelos also issued a statement on Friday in which he
apologised for his "unfortunate video". READ: Adam Catzavelos issues apology over k-word video, vows
to repent for the rest of his life He said that he loves South Africa and is "proud to
have lived in such a beautiful and diverse country". "I don't expect people to forgive me, but will spend
the rest of my life repenting and trying to make up for my total lack of
respect and judgement. "I have been thoughtless and insensitive and shown a
complete lack of understanding of what the people in our nation have endured. I
have insulted so many people. I am not proud." Catzavelos also apologised to his family – his parents, his
wife and his children. In a letter sent to parents on Tuesday, the school that Catzavelos'
son attends said they would not tolerate racism of any sort and that Catzavelos
was not welcome at the school. His brother, Nick, said in a press statement, released on
behalf of the family business, that the video was "offensive", and he
distanced the family from his brother's comments. He said Adam had been
summarily dismissed. On Wednesday, the Economic Freedom Fighters laid a criminal
charge of racism against Catzavelos at the Bramley Police Station in
Johannesburg and on Friday marched on his home in Edenvale. The Human Rights
Commission has also said it will investigate the matter. READ: 'The police must chase him and find him – EFF opens
criminal case against k-word holidaymaker  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  