Tshidi Madia Qedani Mahlangu. (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC in Gauteng says disgraced former health MECs Qedani Mahlangu and Brian Hlongwa – along with former Emfuleni mayor Simon Mofokeng who resigned following allegations that he sexually groomed a teenager – will finally appear before its integrity commission next week. The decision was taken by the party's newly elected provincial executive committee (PEC), which held its first meeting this week. The integrity commission, headed up by former City of Johannesburg municipal manager Trevor Fowler, will deal with the three from August 11-15. According to a statement by Gauteng ANC secretary Jacob Khawe, the provincial integrity commission was currently processing matters concerning the three. The two former health MECs were also reappointed onto the ANC's PEC at its provincial conference last month. Mahlangu had been hauled before the party's integrity committee for her role in the Life Esidimeni tragedy, which resulted in the deaths of at least 144 psychiatric patients after they were transferred from the institution to several unlicensed NGOs. READ: ANC: Still no consequences for Qedani Mahlangu over Life Esidimeni Hlongwa, who is also the ANC's chief whip in the Gauteng legislature, was implicated along with other officials, in a report by the specialised investigative unit (SIU) over corrupt activities to the tune of R1.2bn during his tenure as health MEC. The ANC moved swiftly to place Mofokeng on leave last year after allegations emerged that he had been sexually grooming a 14-year old girl. "Given that the PEC is newly elected, it has requested a proper discussion be held on the SIU report and Cabinet report on the Life Esidimeni, to fully appraise itself with the issues contained in both reports," said Khawe. The ANC in Gauteng also elected its provincial working committee (PWC), subcommittees and set out some of its plans for the year. Its newly elected PWC members are: Dipou Mvelase, Khusela Diko, Lebogang Maile, Vuyo Mhlakaza, Ntombi Mekgwe, Kgosientso Ramokgopa, Mapiti Matsena, Morakane Mosupye and Tasneem Motara. Motara, who is also one of the youngest Members of Parliament, and who heads up the Gauteng ANC subcommittee on communications, was also appointed spokesperson of the party in the province. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  