Jenna Etheridge Adam Catzavelos (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Africans on Twitter are mocking racist beach goer Adam Catzavelos after he filmed himself boasting about being on a Greek beach where there isn't a single black person.WATCH Racist beachgoer Adam Catzavelos, who filmed himself boasting about being on a Greek beach where there wasn't a single black person, has been told by his sons' school that he is not welcome there until further notice. The private Johannesburg school, which News24 is not identifying to protect his childrens' identities, issued a letter to parents on Wednesday saying it will not tolerate racism of any kind. "Because of the actions of this parent, the matter has, quite rightly, assumed a high public profile," the school stated. "His sons and other members of the family have been exposed to the negative publicity his actions have catalysed. In addition, [the school] has taken, and continues to take, a pointed position against this type of appalling and unacceptable behaviour." Also read: On white South Africans being racist at the beach The council and executive management had informed Catzavelos of its decision to ban him from the premises. It said all members of the school community were expected to behave in a manner that was in line with its ethos, values and the country's constitution, "ensuring that we serve as fitting examples to our children". In the video, Catzavelos gives a weather report, adding "amazing sea and not one k*ff*r in sight". He has since been fired from the family business, St George's Fine Foods, and at least one client of the company has already decided to find another supplier. In a statement issued on Wednesday morning, the family said that Adam has been fired from the company. "Adam Catzavelos has been dismissed with immediate effect from the family business, St George's Fine Foods, and his minority shareholding will be unwound as soon as practically possible," read the brief statement published on EWN. Also read: Should women like #AdamCatzavelos' wife be held responsible for their partner's racist or offensive comments and behaviour? Multiple calls to St George's Fine Foods went unanswered on Wednesday, but the fallout has even affected Nike South Africa. It is alleged that Catzavelos' wife works for the sports brand."Nike opposes discrimination and has a long-standing commitment to diversity, inclusion and respect. We believe in the power of human potential in everyone - of every race, religion, nationality, gender and sexual orientation. We can also confirm that Adam Catzavelos is not a Nike employee," the company said in a statement. Also read: Have you condemned Adam Catzavelos yet? 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  