Caryn Dolley (Gallo/Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One person was wounded in a shooting in the early hours of Sunday in the Cape Town city centre, an area which has been the focus of a nightclub security power struggle. The incident, the cause of which has not yet been made clear, occurred on the corner of Long Street and Pepper Street around 03:40. Long Street is well known for the several nightclubs and eateries situated along it. Western Cape police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana on Monday confirmed the shooting to News24. Attempted murder investigation She said an attempted murder case was under investigation. "According to information, there was a fight and the victim was transported to hospital for treatment," she said. "No one has been arrested so far." Dave Bryant, the ward councillor for the City Bowl, posted about the incident on Facebook. He said a suspect was identified after the shooting and Central City Improvement District security staff passed this information on to police officers. 'Vehicle blocked off' "The two agencies then worked together to quickly block off a vehicle with the suspects inside," Bryant said. He said four suspects, one of them in possession of a firearm, were arrested. However, Rwexana said no one was arrested. Bryant said the wounded person was taken to hospital in a private vehicle. It is not clear what sparked the shooting. Private security at venues in the Cape Town city centre have become the focal point of a battle to dominate the nightclub security industry. READ: Special task force, police crack down on Cape clubs in extreme underworld intervention In May 2017, armed police officers from various branches, including the special task force and national intervention unit from Johannesburg, clamped down on Long Street as the tussle for the control over nightclub security intensified. Suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack was arrested in December 2017 along with Ashley Fields, Carl Lakay, Colin Booysen – the brother of alleged Sexy Boys gang boss Jerome "Donkie" Booysen – and Jacques Cronje on suspicion of extorting the managers of an establishment in Granger Bay and forcing them to use their security services. They were released on bail in February 2018. Last Thursday Fields' brother was wounded in a shooting in Salt River. Some sources suggested Fields had actually been the target of the shooting. On August 5, Lakay was murdered in a Goodwood shooting. READ: Co-accused in Modack extortion case murdered Four days earlier Jerome was wounded in a shooting in Kuils River, in an incident which marked the sixth attempt on his life. Another man, allegedly the man who shot Jerome, was shot dead. Modack, Fields, Cronje and Colin are set to go on trial in the Cape Town Regional Court in November. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  