Khosi Biyela Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Department of Education has suspended classes at Kwamasakhane High School in KZN after two pupils were stabbed to death on Monday. Two friends, Sihle Mngadi and Mangaliso Mbatha were allegedly stabbed to death by their fellow schoolmates. KZN Department of Education spokesperson, Kwazi Mthethwa told DRUM that pupils from Kwamasakhane High School will receive physiological help after two of their fellow school mates were killed on the school premises on Monday. “We are trying to get the Department of Social Development to provide counselling for the pupils at the school. It is not easy to see someone whom you work with die –how much more for a child. We believe they need counselling to deal with this.” Kwazi revealed to DRUM that the grade 11 pupil, Sihle had allegedly been involved in a fight with the suspect over the weekend. On Monday when they came back to school, they continued with their fight at the school”. Mangaliso, who was in grade 10, was killed while trying to stop the fight. He refused to reveal if they had established where the teachers were when the deadly fight erupted. “The matter is still under investigation and we are not protecting anyone, everything will be revealed by the investigations,” he said. Kwazi further argued that as much there is a need for security guards in schools, the department could not afford to have them throughout the province. The Department of Education has visited the school and the families of the two deceased. KZN SAPS spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane also confirmed that on Monday two pupils were allegedly stabbed and injured at a local high school. “They were taken to hospital where they died on arrival. The motive of the killing is unknown at this stage.” He said Kwamakhutha police are investigating two counts of murder and no arrest has been made at this stage.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  