Correspondent Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga (Karabo Ngoepe, News24). Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Democratic Alliance on Sunday branded as a 'cheap political gimmick', the call by the ANC to hold fresh elections for the Tshwane and City of Johannesburg metros. "This latest political gimmick by the ANC is ironic considering that the people of Tshwane in the 2016 local government elections elected a government of their choice and voted the ANC out of power," the party’s spokesperson Solly Malatsi said in a statement. He also extolled what he called the achievements of Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba and Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga. "In just two years, the DA-led coalitions governments of Johannesburg and Tshwane have turned things around and the two metros are thriving," suggested Malatsi. Earlier on Sunday, the ANC in Gauteng said that the only way forward for the province was to have fresh elections in the two metros. READ: ANC wants 'fresh elections' for Johannesburg and Tshwane metros For Tshwane, the party was formally releasing its newly elected regional chairperson, Dr Kgosi Maepa, to be nominated to serve in council and be leader of the opposition in the municipality. "We do not want to go through the back door to run that municipality through an unprincipled coalition," said deputy provincial chairperson Panyaza Lesufi in a statement. In Johannesburg, the ANC believed the DA-led coalition had failed to offer proper service delivery and financial performance between August 2017 and this month.  Mashaba was criticised by them for allegedly not moving quickly enough to deal with corruption. Last week, the EFF said that it had tabled a motion of no-confidence in Msimanga, accusing him of being inconsistent and having not approached them through relevant channels regarding the removal of city manager Moeketsi Masola. READ: EFF tables motion of no confidence in Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  