Mahlatse Mahlase Athol Trollip will face another motion of no confidence. (Leon Sadiki, Gallo Images, City Press, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Opposition parties in the Nelson Mandela Bay metro want a motion of no confidence in embattled Mayor Athol Trollip to be held next Friday. In a letter seen by News24, the opposition parties have petitioned the speaker to convene a special council meeting on Friday, August 10, at 14:00. The parties want council to table at least six motions including removing Trollip, speaker Jonathan Lawack and DA chief whip Werner Senekal. In addition, the parties want all of the current portfolio heads of council committees removed and new heads appointed. They also want the position of deputy mayor reinstated. They warned in the letter, received by the speaker's office, that they would go ahead with the meeting even if he does not call the sitting. "Should you not accede to our request aforementioned, we the undersigned majority councillors will accept that you are either absent or not available and will therefore act in terms of section 41 of the Structures Act, read with rule 20 of councils rules of orders, and appoint an acting speaker on the above mentioned date and time and proceed with the council meeting so requested herein, for the said reasons of considering the motions mentioned above," the letter states. On Thursday the City's opposition parties met to discuss removing Trollip from power. The meeting was attended by Patriotic Alliance (PA) leader Gayton McKenzie, who indicated that their second alliance stint with the DA had come to an end. READ: Nelson Mandela Bay coalition against the ropes as PA changes sides, again ANC councillor Andile Lungisa confirmed to News24 that all opposition parties were backing the motion of no confidence against Trollip's government. He said the PA that had helped save Trollip's job four months ago had served the petition and it was being supported by 62 councillors from the African Independent Congress, United Front, UDM, EFF and the ANC. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  