Pule Letshwiti (Gallo/Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Nthabiseng Mofokeng was shot and killed by her boyfriend, Johannes Thanyne, in front of their four-year-old daughter on Sunday evening in Moletsane, Soweto. Johannes later turned the gun on himself. It’s alleged Nthabiseng was in an abusive relationship with Johannes. Nthabiseng’s niece, Boitumelo Mofokeng, told DRUM the 36-year-old mother had just returned from work when a fight started. Boitumelo explains that her aunt’s relationship was shaky and she claims Johannes would monitor Nthabiseng’s comings and goings and he didn’t like it when his girlfriend left their home. "They had a fight, which happened at the boyfriend’s house where they live together, and when she tried to run away that’s when the shooting happened. His uncle was shot as well," Boitumelo tells DRUM. Recalling memories of the shooting The couple’s daughter, who witnessed the incident, recalls the memories of the shooting every day when playing with her friends, according to Boitumelo. "She tells her friends about her dad shooting her mom every time that moment triggers her thoughts," she says. Johannes’ elder brother, Jerry Thanyne, says he’s not ready to comment and the family is busy with funeral arrangements. "I’m busy with arrangements and other stuff, because we’re currently in a tough situation now. I don’t want to say something and at the end regret it. I’m not in a position to say anything now," he says. An inquest into murder as well as attempted murder is currently under way. Gauteng police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela confirmed to DRUM that Johannes’ uncle was also shot and injured during the shootout. "The gun was recovered. What was found is that it was his [Johannes’] personal licensed firearm. We are currently investigating the circumstances of the incidence," Captain Makhubela says. The couple’s daughter is currently living with an aunt. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  