Iavan Pijoos Money recovered following the arrest of a Tshwane metro cop in Atteridgeville. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police have arrested a Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD) officer after he was allegedly linked to a business robbery in Akasia in the north of Pretoria last week. The 39-year-old sergeant was arrested along with a 34-year-old woman in Atteridgeville at about 11:00 last Wednesday. This after police swooped in on a house after receiving information about a robbery committed in Akasia, Captain Mavela Masondo said on Monday. Masondo said the robbers fled the scene in a yellow Audi S3 and drove towards Atteridgeville. "Police followed up information which led them to a house in Atteridgeville. Inside the house, a woman was found in possession of [an] undisclosed amount of cash that she could not account for and she was arrested," Masondo alleged. An undisclosed amount of money was also allegedly found in other rooms. It was believed that the alleged robbers had shared the money before fleeing. Masondo could not disclose the amount of money recovered. He said more money was found in a white VW Jetta parked in the yard, which was not registered on the NaTIS system. The yellow Audi S3, which apparently matched the description of the getaway car, was also found in the yard, he said. According to Masondo, a "preliminary investigation" revealed that it allegedly belonged to the traffic officer. TMPD spokesperson Superintend Isaac Mahamba confirmed that the officer was arrested and added that they would work closely with police. Mahamba said that they were still waiting for the docket. "We are saddened about this arrest, remember we are tasked to uphold the law, but if one of our own is implicated in such [acts], we are worried about that." "We want the law to take its course and we will investigate it fully internally." Details of their court appearance are unclear.    KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  