 Part of South Africa endured an intense cold front over the weekend. Disruptive snowfalls were experienced over the mountainous areas of the Cape Winelands, the West Coast and Overberg districts, as well as the southern high ground of the Northern Cape on Saturday night into Sunday morning. But the cold and rainy conditions are far from over. The South African Weather Service warns that the cold front will continue to cause strong winds, high seas and possible flooding for large parts of the Western Cape before moving over the rest of the country. SEE: Snow, floods and gale force winds in the Cape Bo-Swaarmoed Pas, #Matroosberge 26 Aug - 08:40 bedek met #sneeu ?? Elmien du Toit @SAWeatherServic @Weather4Africa @huisgenoot @JoelGuy_ pic.twitter.com/vBoNqfh0oj  Warnings Gale-force westerly, to south-westerly winds (65-85km/h) are expected between Plettenberg Bay and Port Alfred on Monday. Meanwhile, high seas with wave heights from 6 to 6.5m are expected between Cape Agulhas and East London, moderating from the west. The Western Cape mountains were draped in snow after this weekend's cold weather. ?? @escape.via.adventure pic.twitter.com/cDwTpivSvQ  Temperatures Minimum temperatures are expected be cold across most of the country, with very cold conditions over the central interior. All but four of the country's provinces will see below freezing temperatures, as a total of 13 cities across SA kick the week off on an icy note. The coldest places in SA will be Sutherland in the Northern Cape, dropping to a below-freezing -6°C - while Kimberley and De Aar and Vryburg will also be well below freezing. Some of the Cape Town rain (with lots of wind) that’s been welcomed by the city over the last 24 hours. #thankful #capetown #rain @SAWeatherServic pic.twitter.com/fwJMUvZxSF  Maximum temperatures are expected to be cool across the western half of the country, as well as the north-eastern parts of the Free State and most of Limpopo. Most of the central and eastern parts of the country are expected to be warm. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days View from my front porch. Snow on the mountains. No wonder I'm freaking freezing! #westerncape #weather pic.twitter.com/dQlmO8iTrl  Pretoria is expected to reach a high of 22°C and Johannesburg will see a maximum high of 19°C. Bloemfontein is expected to reach 14°C, after starting the day at -5°C. Along the coast, Cape Town is expected to reach a high of 13°C, Port Elizabeth a high of 16°C, and Durban a maximum of 18°C. Anyone in need of emergency services is urged to contact the City of Cape Town's public emergency communication centre on 021 480 7700 or 107 from a landline. Take a look at some of the snow, rain and hail pics shared from this past weekend.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  