Christina Pitt This is the shallow grave where Oyingcwele Zokufa was found. (Christina Pitt, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The family of 2-year-old Oyingcwele Zokufa has expressed shock and sorrow after his body was found near the N2 highway. Oyingcwele's body was found in a shallow grave in the bushes on the side of the N2 on Thursday after he went missing four days ago. Deputy Police Minister Bongani Mkongi and a delegation visited the site where the toddler's body was found, as well as Oyingcwele's family in nearby Philippi on Friday. READ Suffer little children: The missing, the lost and the dead During a meeting with the family in their Philippi home, Mkongi appeared to be crying. Oyingcwele's uncle Mgidlana Mcebisi said that the suspect abducted the child after a fight with his girlfriend, a relative who is not the mother's child. Police tracked the suspect down after he made contact with Oyingcwele's mother. He has since been charged with murder. "Everyone is shocked. The mother can't even talk now," Mcebisi said. READ: 21 missing SA children you may not have heard about 9-year-old girl's body found at dumping site "I can't lie, we are very happy that they caught this man because he will kill again. Maybe this boy isn't the only child he killed." Mkongi said seeing the makeshift grave "and how small it was" had hurt him. "I asked what instruments this guy used. When I walked up here, I saw a lot of dirt and faeces. This person didn't have respect for this young boy." Only 40km away, 9-year-old Privilege Mabvongwe's body was found in a dumping site in Bloekombos on Thursday. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said that the little girl was still dressed in her school uniform when her body was discovered. The 9-year-old went missing on Monday afternoon after she was dropped off by a taxi close to her home. Mkongi and his delegation were also due to meet Privilege's family in Kraaifontein later on Friday.  Oyingcwele Zokufa's family (Christina Pitt, News24)   Deputy Police Minister Bongani Mkongi. (Christina Pitt, News24)  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  