Vincent Lali Mashikwe Luzipho was with Tshutsha Daniso on the fatal night. (Vincent Lali, GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tshutsha Daniso was watching over new RDP houses being built in Bardale, Mfuleni, when he was shot dead on Friday night, GroundUp reported. Daniso was guarding houses at the Siluncedo People's Housing Project and Ilitha People's Housing Project. He died at the corner of Ibhola and Inqununu Street. "Just as he returned from collecting firewood and sat on a chair, the thugs shot him dead," said Mashikwe Luzipho, who was on the same shift that night. Luzipho said they were busy making tea. Their colleagues were out patrolling the construction site. "We have lost someone who made us laugh - throughout the nights - with his funny jokes … We will miss him," he said. READ: Mob justice playing out in Dunoon: Body discovered in drain, another found burnt in the street Vuyelwa Nqambuza, Luzipho's wife, said: "My husband pounded on my door, woke me up and asked me to phone the police … He said criminals are shooting us. He was terrified." Nqambuza described Daniso as "quiet and kind". Luzipho said he was "sweet and chatty". Luzipho added that they had been on the site for a month. Criminals attempted to steal anything they could from the newly-built houses, including doors and windows while the cement was still wet. They were most active between 01:00 and 06:00. "We chase and catch them before we hand them over to the project managers," he said. No more chasing thugs Luzipho said he now fears for his life. "We will stay in the shipping container and lock the gate at the site. We won't chase after thugs again because they will kill us." Community member Mzikayise Moni said he heard gunshots while he was watching the lunar eclipse at his home on Friday night. At about 07:00 on Saturday, Moni saw residents and police gathered at the construction site. "The police must stop being scarce around here and start to patrol on a nightly basis," he said. "We have been experiencing theft of our building materials since 2015. I report it to the police, but they are not helping," said a manager at the site, who did not want to be named. Western Cape police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said a murder case had been opened. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  