Christina Pitt (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An intense cold front and localised flooding in certain parts of the Western Cape are expected on Saturday, according to the City of Cape Town's Disaster Management Centre. The South African Weather Service warned that the cold front could cause strong winds, high seas and flooding in the West Coast, the Cape Metropole, the Overberg and the Cape Winelands. "Disaster Risk Management will co-ordinate any City response required as a result of the forecast and will monitor roads, informal settlements, mountainous and low-lying areas in particular," a statement said. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the eastern Northern Cape, Breede River Valley, Central And Little Karoo of the Western Cape, interior of the Eastern Cape, Free State, North West and in Gauteng. Gale-force northwesterly winds (65-80KM/H) are expected between Cape Columbine and Cape Agulhas, and in places in the Breede River Valley and western parts of the Central Karoo from late Saturday morning, moderating into Sunday morning.Disruptive snowfalls are expected over the  mountainous areas of the Cape Winelands, the West Coast and Overberg districts as well as the southern high ground of the Northern Cape on Saturday night into Sunday morning.Heavy rain leading to localised flooding is expected in the Cape Metropole, Cape Winelands, southern parts of West Coast and western parts of the Overberg District from Saturday afternoon into Sunday.  Watch High seas with wave heights from six to nine metres are expected between Cape Columbine and Cape Agulhas on Sunday.Special weather advisories Strong winds are expected over the northern interior of the Eastern Cape, Western Cape, Gauteng, North west, and the Norther Cape. Light snowfalls are expected along the Kougaberge and peaks of the Tsitsikamma mountains on Sunday morning. Rain Widespread rainfall can be expected over the Cape Metropole, the Cape Winelands, the southern parts of West Coast and western parts of the Overberg. Isolated showers can be expected along the escarpment in the Northern Cape, and along the West Coast, in the Drakensberg region, and in the extreme northeastern parts of the Free State. Overnight snowfall can be expected on the Western Cape high ground and the southwestern parts of the Northern Cape. Temperatures Minimum temperatures are expected be cold across most of the country with extreme cold conditions over the central interior. Warm weather can be expected along the northern border. The coldest place will be Sutherland in the Northern Cape, dropping to a below-freezing -4°C. Maximum temperatures are expected to be cool across the western half of the country, as well as the northeastern parts of the Free State and the western parts of Mpumalanga. Most of the central and eastern parts of the country is expected to be warm. A few places are expected to reach a high of 29°C. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days Pretoria is expected to reach a high of 27°C, while Johannesburg and Bloemfontein are expected to reach 25°C. Along the coast, Cape Town is expected to reach a high of 14°C, Port Elizabeth a high of 25°C, and Durban a maximum of 29°C. Anyone in need of emergency services this weekend is urged to contact the City's public emergency communication centre on 021 480 7700 or 107 from a landline. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  