Canny Maphanga Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. (Christopher Moagi, Daily Sun) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng MEC for Education Panyaza Lesufi gave Parktown Boys High School pupils a tongue-lashing on Thursday. He was addressing them on a report, compiled by an independent law firm, about secondary victimisation allegations at the school. The MEC told them he was not happy because the report revealed that issues they had dealt with previously had resurfaced. "If I had my wish boys, I would ask everyone in the room to leave and I remain with you and go deeper in this report to determine why things are going the way they are going in your school," Lesufi told the pupils during an assembly at the school on Thursday. This second investigation came about when people came forward with more allegations after an assistant coach at the school was accused of misconduct and was tried. The former assistant water polo coach pleaded guilty in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg to 144 charges related to the sexual assault of young pupils on the school's premises. 'Harassed' According to Lesufi, the report confirmed that there were things that were "uncalled for" that continued to take place at the school. This occurred under the culture of silencing boys which Lesufi said must come to an end. "There are still boys who are harassed and continue not to report them because they believe what happens here must stay here," Lesufi said. A series of activities that were described as "completely unacceptable" were revealed in the report. However, the contents could not be revealed to the public, he said. "I cannot share the report until there is consultation with [pupils], the school governing body and the parent population. After this, I will be guided by the lawyers on whether to make it public or not." READ: Parktown Boys water polo coach would choke us and touch our genitals, witnesses tell court Lesufi further urged implicated teachers to "co-operate with us or leave us in peace". More hearings for department staff were expected to take place on September 14 and 15. Parktown Boys High School has since appointed a new principal Malcolm Williams, who says the school's focus is to provide support and healing for the boys who have suffered trauma. "It really is a matter of reminding these young men that they have done nothing wrong, that unacceptable actions have been done to them and these actions cannot define them," Williams concluded. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  