Jan Gerber Farm land. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Joint Constitutional Review Committee (CRC) has invited a range of speakers including Black First Land First (BLF) and the whites-only community of Orania to address it on land expropriation without compensation. In fact, Orania will speak to the committee right after the BLF next Wednesday, according to the proposed programme, which the committee released on Thursday. "This round of public hearings emanates from the written submissions from South Africans received by the deadline of 15 June 2018. The hearings will take place from 4 to 7 September 2018 at Parliament," reads a statement from the CRC. Co-chairperson Vincent Smith said 30 oral submissions would be heard in Parliament during the four days set aside for this purpose. "These are organisations or individuals who had indicated they would like to make oral submissions at Parliament and have thus far confirmed their availability during the given period." READ: Land reform's Codesa moment Co-chairperson Lewis Nzimande said the submissions were from the agricultural sector, academics, civil society organisations and the religious sector. "This is a broad spectrum of participants and is indicative of the interest across the board in the subject matter. We are pleased with the interest shown by all South Africans." AfriForum, Afrikanerbond also on the programme Among the academics who will present is Dr Aninka Claassens from the University of Cape Town's Land and Accountability Research Centre. She also served on former president Kgalema Motlanthe's high-level commission on key legislation, which made a damning finding on the government's land reform programme. Dr Ruth Hall of the University of the Western Cape's Institute for Poverty, Land and Agrarian Studies and Professor Elmien du Plessis of the University of the North West's law faculty will also give presentations. Several farmers' unions, including Agri SA and the National African Farmers Union, will also present their views, as will institutions from the banking sector as well as some religious bodies. Former National Party politician Roelf Meyer will give a presentation on behalf of his organisation, In Transformation Initiative. Conservative organisations that will present their take include the libertarian, Anglo/Oppenheimer-funded Institute for Race Relations, alt-right lobby group AfriForum and the Afrikanerbond, formerly the Broederbond, then a secret society for white, Christian, Afrikaans males who clandestinely controlled the political, economic and cultural levers of apartheid South Africa. The full proposed programme can be accessed here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  