Lianda Dadlana Cindy and Zac Edwards. (Photo: Facebook/Cindy Edwards) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Zac Edwards (37) and wife Cindy (32), from Alabama in the US, were in the middle of taking wedding pictures at Orange Beach when a woman screamed for help after seeing a boy struggling in the water on 3 August. Luckily for the teenage boy Zac quickly dived into the ocean to save his life, The Metro reported. The 18-year-old, whose name isn’t known, was boogie boarding when he got caught up in strong currents. The heroic groom returned to shore soaking wet after getting the young man safely back to shore, The Mirror reported. "You could just tell by the look on his face he was in difficulty. When we first saw him was about 50 yards (45m) out," said Zac, who’s a marine science technician. "I ran into the water. I told some kids to go back to the beach and I took a boogie board. I’m so glad I did that." When Cindy saw that her husband was getting tired as he was fighting against the current, she began to panic, reported the Daily Mail. Luckily a responder from Orange Beach Fire Department and Orange Beach Surf Rescue put both Zac and the teenager onto a jet ski. "I tried to keep his head above water and I propped him up onto the boogie board," Zac continued. "The current was really strong and it was stopping us from coming in any further. I was starting to panic slightly.” "I wasn’t panicked until they were swimming back in. I could tell Zac was tiring and they couldn’t get over the current," Cindy said. "They’d stopped and I was worried. Thank God the first responders arrived." Cindy shared how proud she is of her husband on Facebook and also made people aware of the dangers of the water. The teenager has since recovered from the incident. "I think people underestimate the ocean. It wasn’t his fault at all but it was a red flag day," Zac said. "People don’t read the signs and swimmers need to be very cautious. Even experienced swimmers can get into difficulty."  Source: The Metro, The Mirror, Daily Mail, Facebook/Cindy Edwards   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  