Riaan Grobler Paul O’Sullivan (Mary-Ann Palmer, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Private forensic investigator Paul O’Sullivan will be seeking a private prosecution against deputy director of public prosecutions, JJ Mlotshwa, as well as Warrant Officer Kobus Vlok and others he believes were involved “in the gross abuse of his constitutional rights”. This follows the umpteenth court case against O’Sullivan that ended with no conviction. The latest, a case of extortion and intimidation, was withdrawn in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. In a lawyer’s letter by law firm Hurter Spies Inc, addressed to Mlotshwa, O’Sullivan alleges that the Priority Crimes Litigation Unit (PCLU) was used to deal with politically motivated false allegations against him, as well as a number of other high-profile people such as Robert McBride, Glynis Breytenbach, Anwar Dramat, Julius Malema and Pravin Gordhan. The letter states that, on April 1, 2016, O’Sullivan was unlawfully arrested and dragged off a plane with his two minor children and “detained and tortured for three days at the hands of the PCLU and rogue members” of the Hawks.  According to the letter, this was because O’Sullivan was pursuing criminal dockets against a number of high-ranking police officers and NPA officials such as Nomgcobo Jiba and Lawrence Mrwebi, former SAA boss Dudu Myeni, former president Jacob Zuma’s son Edward Zuma and nephew Khulubuse Zuma, and others. “The above mentioned cases involve widespread, institutionalised fraud, corruption and racketeering involving amounts in excess of R10bn. Not a single one of the many cases our client has opened, all of which contain prima facie evidence against the suspects, has led to the suspects being held accountable, whilst our client has been repeatedly harassed and intimidated and been subjected to multiple unlawful searches, arrests, and violation of his constitutional rights, over the last three years and four months,” the letter states. In an email to News24, O’Sullivan listed eight cases brought against him that were either withdrawn, or where he had been found not guilty. These include charges of kidnapping, fraud, espionage, theft, corruption and forgery, among others. In the email, O’Sullivan described the case that was withdrawn on Wednesday as “a fake case, one of many that these criminals launched against me”. O’Sullivan’s lawyer’s letter states that he will be pursuing cases of perjury, defeating the ends of justice, fraud, corruption, unlawful arrest, torture, extortion and theft, among others, against Vlok and Mlotshwa, as well as other unnamed individuals. On his website, O’Sullivan wrote: “The personal cost to me has been extremely high. I have witnessed multiple unlawful raids on my offices. I have seen my attorney being kidnapped and driven around at high speed for hours. I have been kidnapped myself, twice, and tortured and been regularly subjected to the abuse of my constitutional rights. Multiple fake cases have been run against me, all of which have now failed.” The case withdrawn on Wednesday was not the only good news for O'Sullivan this week. On Monday, Daily Maverick reported that Vodacom had been forced to pay the investigator just over R1.2m for breaching his privacy by leaking personal information to convicted criminal Radovan Krejcir’s lawyers in 2014. NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku declined to comment.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  