Derrick Spies, Correspondent Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Eskom says there is a low probability of rotational loadshedding during the day on Saturday, but that the probability of rotational loadshedding could increase towards the evening as demand increases. On Friday, Eskom announced that there was a high risk of loadshedding over the next 30 days, as recovery teams started fixing damage the power utility says was caused by strikes. READ: 'High risk' of load shedding for next 30 days - Eskom This means that South Africans will have to plan for load shedding until Sunday 2 September, and Eskom has asked businesses and the public to use power sparingly during this period. On Tuesday the power utility instituted three hours of load shedding saying power generation capacity shortfalls had been caused by the intimidation of workers and acts of sabotage. Workers at Eskom’s three recognised unions – Solidarity, the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) and the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) – have been in long-running wage negotiations with Eskom. Eskom has reached an agreement with Solidarity, but the other two unions are still consulting their members. In a satatement on Saturday, Eskom said they would advise if loadshedding would be conducted in either stage 1, stage 2, stage 3 or stage 4, dependent on the capacity shortage. Stage 1 requires 1000MW to be rotationally loadshed nation-wide, stage 2 requires 2000MW, stage 3 requires 3000MW and stage 4 calls for up to 4000MW to be rotationally loadshed nationally at a given period. Loadshedding is conducted rotationally as a measure of last resort to protect the power system from a total collapse or blackout. "We encourage residents and businesses to please use electricity sparingly to ease the demand of electricity. Please switch off geysers as well as all non-essential lighting and electricity appliances to assist in reducing demand." Customers are advised to keep checking their load shedding schedules on the Eskom or municipal website, and plan on the assumption that load shedding will take place. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  