Jan Gerber Bucking the trend established at the Joint Constitutional Review Committee's public hearings on amending Section 25 of the Constitution throughout the country, a young white man said at the final hearing in Goodwood, Cape Town on Saturday that the Constitution must be amended to allow expropriation without compensation to restore black people's dignity. Throughout the hearings, many white people said they support land reform, but they weren't in favour of amending Section 25 – the Constitution's property clause. On Saturday the man said he was born in 1995, part of the so-called "born-free generation", but when he looks at his black brothers and sisters, he sees that they are not free. "When our forefathers arrived, they not only stripped them of their land, they also stripped them of the dignity." "It is time to return their dignity," he said to loud cheers.  There was, however, also some war talk. A man in camouflage pants and black Doc Marten's boots, said he wore his medals that were on display on his army coat to show that he knows the dangers of war. "There are no winners in war. Although I have love in my heart I will go to war to defend my nation!" he said, raising his voice. Committee co-chairperson Vincent Smith had to insist on calm as many in the audience grumbled in protest and people close to the speaker gesticulated angrily at him. A man who identified himself as a "Khoi warrior" said: "I am one of those who is prepared to die for land. We've been dying for land for ages." He said the fact that white people are allowed to sit peacefully in the hall, should be compensation enough.  "The only compensation white people should get is an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth!" he said. "Don’t be patient no more! Take the land! It is our land!" Smith again had to ask for calm after a white lady said that when whites came to the Cape there were no cellphones or KFC's, only bushes and complained about the EFF and ANC. Although the EFF didn't garner much support in the 2014 elections in the Western Cape, many speakers pledged their allegiance to the party to loud cheers and several people in the audience that were seen wearing EFF-regalia.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  