Andile Sithole Paramedics treat the injured passengers of a VW Polo. PHOTO: andile sithole Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories DRAMA unfolded at Tongaat central on Tuesday, August 21 on the R102 highway after security guards allegedly fired shots at a moving vehicle with four occupants. It alleged that there was an exchange of gunfire between the occupants of a Polo and security guards, who were in a Toyota Hilux bakkie. Shoppers and other community members ran for cover as stray bullets peppered the area. The driver of the Polo who was 21-years-old, was fatally wounded while the three passengers were injured and taken to hospital for treatment. According to police, the suspects opened fire at the moving vehicle, causing the driver to lose control and collide with a tree on the R102. One of the men, who sustained a gunshot wound in his eye, fled on foot while the others remained inside the car. When the Weekly arrived at the scene, bystanders said the occupants of a Polo were coming from Waterloo when the incident happened. One of the residents at the scene, Mondli Mpungose, said: “I heard gunshots and went out to investigate. I saw a man lying on the ground,” he said. The motive for the shooting is not yet known. Police could not confirm if the four men were being pursued by security guards from Verulam. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said: “A VW Polo was found with four men who had gunshot wounds and the driver was deceased on the R102 highway, Tongaat CBD. “It is alleged that there was an exchange of gunfire between the Polo occupants and the security guards who were in a Toyota Hilux bakkie. The motive of the shooting is unknown. A case of murder and attempted murder has been opened at Tongaat police station.” The Weekly established that the security guards were arrested and detained at Tongaat police cells pending investigation. Police confiscated three rifles and a pistol that will be sent for ballistic tests. The four suspects, aged between 24 and 37, are expected to appear at the Verulam Magistrate’s court soon on charges of murder and attempted murder. The injured were treated at the scene and transported into hospital. The body of the man was taken to a nearby mortuary. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  