Canny Maphanga The SITA network experienced problems on Monday when the network was down. (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The State Information Technology Agency (SITA) wants to assure the government and the public that it intends to probe the recent knock-on effect of power outages on service delivery countrywide. "SITA is deeply concerned by these unprecedented network outages – noting especially that it has happened over the past two working days – when citizens require services from government," SITA spokesperson Anthea Summers said in a statement on Monday. The statement comes after a power outage left the Department of Home Affairs offline on Friday. All services were put on hold until electricity was restored. The SITA network also experienced problems on Monday when the network was down from 10:05 to 11:40. EXCLUSIVE: Death threats and dismissals - inside SITA’s 'clean-up' investigations "SITA sincerely apologises to all government departments and citizens for the inconvenience caused during this time," Summers said. An engineering report revealed that Monday's power outage, which lasted more than 90 minutes, was directly related to the outage experienced on Friday as a result of an Eskom power failure. However, SITA said it wanted to probe why its own transmission equipment, which had been running on battery power since the outage on Friday, was depleted. "SITA engineers are currently investigating why the transmission system failed to switch back to the standard power grid; which would be the standard operating procedure," Summers said. SITA has committed to updating all stakeholders as more information unfolds. "SITA fully recognises that government and the nation must have – and indeed deserve – answers that will give all stakeholders the comfort that the matter is resolved," Summers concluded. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  