Tammy Petersen One train carriage has been destroyed in a fire at Koeberg Station. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Firefighters on Tuesday responded to a train in flames at Koeberg station in Cape Town, battling to douse the inferno that razed one carriage. City of Cape Town fire services spokesperson Theo Layne said its members responded to the blaze at 10:05. No injuries have been reported. The cause of the fire has not yet been determined. READ: Another Metrorail train on fire in Cape Town, bringing the number of incidents to five Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said the swift reaction of response teams resulted in the fire being extinguished quickly. Platforms 1, 3 and 4 at Koeberg Station remain operational, while platform 2 will be assessed for damage after the train is removed, she said. Trains are being rerouted following the blaze. "Mop-up crews will move in as soon as the SAPS and forensic teams have concluded their on-site investigation," she said. "The train will be taken to a depot for Prasa's loss adjusters to assess the extent of the damage and the cost of replacing the burnt passenger carriage." READ: 'Sinister force behind Cape Town train fires amid relentless attacks' Last month alone, three train torchings and one botched attempt was recorded. In July, 32 coaches were damaged as a result of arson. The damage caused to trains and infrastructure came to a total of more than R50m. Only one arrest had been made in connection with the suspected sabotage, when a 24-year-old man was last month caught as he attempted to flee after allegedly trying to start a fire on a stationary train in Cape Town station. The motive behind the attacks remains unclear. Scott urged commuters to report any suspicious activity or smell of accelerants to station or security staff. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  