Jana van der Merwe Liam Nortje. (Photo: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Eight months after a father
from Harrismith in the eastern Free State had run off with his three-year-old
son, he’s still refusing to say where the toddler is. The boy’s mother is
hoping her estranged husband had left their son in someone’s safe care – but he’s
refusing to tell her or the police where the child is. Cheinelle Nortjé (42)
believes her husband, Nantes (47) – who’s been charged with kidnapping their
son – did it to punish her for wanting to divorce him after a 23-year marriage.
Though Liam’s been missing for eight months, she believes she’ll see her little
boy again. “I don’t wish this
incredible hell on my greatest enemy,” she says. “I just want to say to Nantes,
‘Tell me where my Liam is. I just want to hold him in my arms again. I won’t
keep our child from you.’ ” Nantes, who ran off with
Liam in November last year, was arrested on 18 July at a house in Ladysmith,
KwaZulu-Natal. There was no sign of Liam at the house. Nantes has appeared in
court three time since his arrest. Police spokesperson Sergeant
Mmako Mophiring confirmed to YOU that Nantes’ most recent appearance was on 6
August in the magistrate’s court in Harrismith, and that he’s been charged with
kidnapping. Since his arrest he hasn’t said a word about Liam’s whereabouts. “The investigation
continues and has been carrying on for some time,” Mophiring said, adding that
Nantes’ next court appearance will be on 21 August, when he’s expected to apply
for bail. The last time Cheinelle
heard her youngest child’s voice was on 21 November last year when Nantes
called her and they argued. The last thing he said to her, as she could hear
Liam screaming hysterically in the background, was, “You’ll never see Liam
again.” He then told her he’d
left her a surprise in the neighbouring town of Kestell.  Cheinelle explains that
after it became clear the marriage wasn’t working – for several reasons – Nantes
moved out of their home and went to live with a family member in Kestell. He still
helped to care for Liam because she was working full-time. After the call
Cheinelle went to Kestell as soon as she could get a lift with someone. “Liam has the most
beautiful blond hair and we’d never cut the ducktail in his neck,” she says. But
in Kestell a shocking find was waiting. “The ducktail was tied
with an elastic and the ends of the hair were burnt. I was hysterical. I was
crazy. That’s was the closest I’d been to Liam ever since [the phone call].”  She has two daughters,
Wynette (18) and Rochelle (15), who are heartbroken over the disappearance of
their baby brother. & Tania Opperman
from the South African Support Initiative (SASI), an organisation that helps to
find missing persons, has been supporting Cheinelle and her family over the
past eight months. She asks that anyone with information contact her on
084-830-1031, her colleague Wendy Pascoe on 064-648-1577, or the Harrismith
police’s Phuthaditjhaba Family, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit on
058-624-1000. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  