Christina Pitt Aksel Otterbeck, who was volunteering in South Africa, was knocked down and killed while walking with a group in Table View. (Image via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories State witness Pieter Kleynhans has told the Cape Town Regional Court that he heard a loud bang and turned to see two people lying in the middle of the road on the night that a Swedish volunteer was knocked down and killed in Table View. Kleynhans was testifying on Thursday in the case of Darryl Futter, who is accused of killing Aksel Otterbeck on Arum Road on the evening of December 14, 2016. Futter has pleaded not guilty to charges of culpable homicide, driving under the influence of alcohol, reckless and/or negligent driving and two counts of assault. On that particular evening, Kleynhans and his wife paid a visit to his cousin on Arum Road. At approximately 20:50 the couple were saying their goodbyes in the driveway when they spotted a group of 10 people walking in their direction, Kleynhans testified. "I only looked at them for a split second. I was still greeting my cousin, so I turned with my back to the road," he said. "I didn't see the vehicle. I only heard the engine that sounded like it was high revving. The collision was so loud and so close that I thought that it hit the back side of my car. I immediately turned around and saw young people on the ground." Witness quizzed about time of incident Kleynhans and his wife then attended to a young woman who was lying an estimated 2m away from the car. He testified that the woman was badly injured and was bleeding from her nose and mouth. ALSO READ: Legacy of Swedish volunteer killed in Table View lives on While they were attending to the woman, they saw a young man lying on a nearby grass patch and another man with a leg injury. During cross-examination, defence attorney Keith Gess grilled Kleynhans on the time of the incident. "One witness – a policeman – said that he got the call on his radio at 20:50. A witness from the neighbourhood watch received a call at 20:35 and a third witness said that it took place at 20:20," he said. "Three people put the time before yours, are you sure that this isn't an assumption?" Kleynhans, who had initially defended his testimony, conceded that he may have made a mistake. Driver denied being drunk It was revealed that Kleynhans' wife had approached the accused in his Volkswagen Polo, which had parked further down the road. "Your wife went to the driver of the Volkswagen and asked him if he had been drinking and speeding, which he denied. What else did she say to him?" Kleynhans said that his wife had left him alone with the injured woman, but could not specify when she had left. "When I walked over there, there were people who I thought were from the neighbourhood watch talking to him. I say I thought they were from the neighbourhood watch because they were wearing protective vests," he said. "I was just standing around because I was in shock. I don't know what else she said." The trial is expected to resume on September 14. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  