Alex Mitchley PHOTO: Getty Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  A 39-year-old man was shot several times at the Rietondale Park in Tshwane on Saturday morning, in what is suspected to have been a hit. Police spokesperson Captain Daniel Mavimbela confirmed the incident and said that a case of murder is being investigated. He added that the motive for the shooting was still being investigated. According to witness Jacques Aspeling, who was also at the park, two men opened fire on the victim, who was at the park playing soccer. Read: BMW driver shot dead in Randburg in apparent 'hit' Aspeling said after he heard the first shot go off, he looked up and saw two men standing over the victim. One of the suspects shot the man six more times as he lay on the ground. "They were standing over him and shot him in the head," Aspeling said. Aspeling said the victim was shot in full view of a lady who was sitting there with him and that the gunmen did not attempt to shoot her. The victim's girlfriend, brother and friends were in close proximity. He said the suspects did not take anything from the victim, but only picked up a phone belonging to another one of the soccer players at the park. After the shooting, both suspects ran to a nearby vehicle and fled the scene. Read more: Man shot 25 times on Golden Highway, says Joburg metro police A friend of the victim, who also witnessed the shooting, said one of the suspects passed them twice. As he came by a third time, he shot the man from behind and then shot him multiple more times. The victim's girlfriend was in a state of shock and unable to speak to News24. Hi-Risk security operations manager Reg Crewe said one of their reaction vehicles was dispatched to the scene after getting a phone call of a shooting in progress. Upon arrival, the suspects had already fled. However, from the information gathered, the shooting was planned and the victim was specifically targeted, said Crewe. Paramedic Xander Loubser from Best Care Ambulance Services confirmed that one person was declared dead on scene.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  