Kaveel Singh There was an outpouring of emotion in the Durban Magistrate's Court as Mohammed Ebrahim, the man accused of kidnapping missing Durban boy Miguel Louw, was granted bail. Proceedings were disrupted by several outbursts from Miguel's family including his mother and grandmother who walked out of court saying the justice system had failed them. "I'd rather walk away than hear a lawyer talk so much lies," grandmother Arlene Paul said. Father of Miguel, Kirk Louw, hit Ebrahim with a denim jacket as he was escorted out of court. The boy's mother, Raylene, left proceedings as Magistrate Mahomed Motala was delivering his bail judgment. "You will rot. I will find you outside," she said as she left. Miguel, 9, is still missing. WATCH: Mother of missing Durban boy, 10, lashes out at accused State's case picked apart Motala was visibly at pains as he granted the accused bail of R2 500, saying that the State had brought no further evidence against Ebrahim since his arrest in July 28. Defence lawyer Chris Gounden picked apart the State's case, relying heavily on the fact that it took three days for authorities to arrest Ebrahim. "The State says that there was information and tracking in finding him. The truth is he was not running. He was in the Durban CBD and had no money to get anywhere. His boss from work called him and he willingly told him where he was. That is how he was arrested. There was no evasion."  The State's case also hinged on video evidence that showed Ebrahim as the last person to be seen with the boy. He was seen in video footage buying him KFC near his school on Rippon Road in Sydenham. However, prosecutor Calvin Govender could not say if Miguel entered a taxi with Ebrahim after visiting the KFC. He said that even though the investigating officer had interviewed the taxi driver, the driver could not say if Ebrahim was with the boy because he encountered too many people in his work. Read: Durban family desperately looking for answers over missing 10-year-old boy: 'No one is eating, no one is sleeping' Man kicked out Gounden also picked apart evidence that the State claims shows that Ebrahim stole the boy's birth certificate. "He had seen it lying around in the victim's house and took it for safekeeping. He had a proper reason for having the documents and this has not been challenged. He had three days to dispose of the documents. Why would he keep them?" Motala called for calm from the emotionally charged community members of which were vocal in the gallery. Motala even kicked out one man for an outburst. The matter will return to court on October 17 while police investigate further.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  