Kaveel Singh Head of radio station PowerFM Given Mkhari. (Elizabeth Sejake, Gallo Images, City Press, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Court matters against PowerFM boss Given Mkhari and his wife Ipeleng were withdrawn in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said. "We can confirm as the NPA Gauteng that both matters [were] withdrawn. This after the senior prosecutor called both parties to participate in mediation process," spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said. Mkhari, who is the chairperson of MSG Afrika, and his wife, who is the CEO and founder of Motseng Investment Holdings and the president-elect of the SA Properties Association, allegedly had a fight in their home in July. They laid charges against each other and were arrested at the same time. Later, they claimed that they decided to withdraw the charges against each other. "He and his wife have withdrawn assault charges against each other. Mkhari said he had gone to press charges at the Randburg Police Station, followed by his spouse. The family have since taken the decision to resolve the matter at home," said a statement on PowerFM's Twitter handle. The two also shared a joint statement on their respective Twitter accounts. "We confirm that an unfortunate incident happened between us in our home on Saturday, 14 July 2018. We both individually reported the matter to the police. We are now withdrawing each case to resolve the matter in the privacy of our home," it read. MSG Afrika Group also confirmed at the time that Given had requested time off to deal with the matter with his family. The group has expressed its stance on the matter saying: "We affirm our commitment to the rule of law. MSG strongly condemns domestic violence of any form," their statement read. NPA says that both matters against PowerFM boss Mkhari and his wife were officially withdrawn on August 3 at the Randburg Magistrate's Court. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  