Byrone Athman Miss Teen Globe South Africa Charity 2018, Karell Moonsamy, will be hosting a charity event for abused women, children and animals on September 1. PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories WINNING the Miss Teen Globe South Africa Charity 2018 this year has encouraged Karell Moonsamy in her efforts to help the public as she embarks on yet another charity event in awareness of women, child and animal abuse this September. Moonsamy who will be heading to the Philippines this November to represent South Africa on an international stage said that her event, which takes place on September 1 at the Dunning Country House in Howick, will celebrate in particular the essence of a woman. “It will be a fun day for all families to celebrate the essence of woman,” said Moonsamy. After obtaining her first national title this year having previously won the Miss KZN Top Model SA title in 2017, Moonsamy stated that it was then that she wholeheartedly and sincerely decided that she wanted to be the change in the world. “I decided that I wanted to be the change that I wanted to see in this world and that I would lead by example,” said Moonsamy. The charity event has been merited as a way to raise funds for the Angel Care for Abused Women and Children and the SPCA. “The aim of this event is to create awareness that through love, unity and fun we can eradicate many criminal offences. Abuse is one of the highest ranked crimes within our community and through inspirational and motivational interaction we can help build a healthy community one individual at a time,” said Moonsamy. There will be a colour fun walk which begins at 10 am with entrants asked to pay a fee of R10 a person while a raffle will also be taken with a grand prize of a weekend away at the Phoenix House for a family of seven. Lots of activities will be made available with a toy hunt at R59 per child while those looking to trade can book a stall at R60 a stall. For any other information please contact Petro Greyling on 072 671 6221. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  