Nkululeko Ncana Former Safa CEO Leslie Sedibe (Themba Makofane, City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories World football federation FIFA has been stripped of all its
South African trademarks and is now forced to hand over documents that could
expose corruption and millions in kickbacks at the highest levels of government
and the country's local soccer authority. In a world first, and what could be seen as a
precedent-setting court battle, North Gauteng High Court Judge Van der
Westhuizen issued an attachment order in favour of former football
administrator Leslie Sedibe. This means FIFA will need to seek Sedibe's permission to
trade in South Africa until such a time as it successfully opposes the order. Sedibe launched the successful court application in order to
force FIFA to review and possibly overturn the five-year ban and fine it
imposed on him after finding him guilty of unethical behaviour following
investigations into match fixing in three friendlies ahead of the 2010 FIFA
World Cup. At the heart of his application to have FIFA's trademarks
attached is Sedibe's request of the football body to grant him an opportunity
to reopen its probe and grant him an opportunity to present evidence that could
exonerate him from wrongdoing. "The applicant is authorised to attach the trademarks
owned, and/or in which the first respondent [FIFA] has a beneficial interest,
and all trademarks controlled by the first respondent in terms of Section 41(2)
of the Trademarks Act No. 194 of 1993 of the Republic of South Africa ..."
said Van der Westhuizen in his order on Wednesday. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela witness statement The bruising court battle levelled against FIFA and the
South African Football Association (Safa) by Sedibe will also see the late
apartheid struggle veteran Winnie Madikizela-Mandela thrust into the spotlight. In addition to the evidence presented to court, and central
to his case, was a witness statement by Madikizela-Mandela that Sedibe had
secured before she died in April. The City Press has heard a recorded interview wherein
Madikizela-Mandela agrees to testify for Sedibe and was shocked that South
African football administrators refused to support him, and rather sacrificed
him to FIFA's disciplinary processes without a fair hearing during his tenure
as Safa chief executive officer. Sedibe believes that the resistance to his crusade to clear
his name is because some of the information that has been held back could lift
the lid on an alleged $10m fee that was paid in the run-up to the 2010 FIFA
World Cup, that was apparently unaccounted for. In 2015 South Africa was placed under investigation for
alleged bribery during the adjudication of the 2010 FIFA World Cup. FIFA found that a $10m bribe was spirited away at Safa's
behest and re-emerged in a development fund in the Caribbean. Fraud and corruption It is understood that law enforcement officials will now
also be forced to investigate possible fraud and corruption at Safa relating to
match fixing and alleged bribery ahead of the 2010 event. Sedibe said he found no pleasure in litigating against FIFA,
but was left with no option when it was clear that "the cloud they have
hanging [over] my head is going nowhere". "They are doing this despite overwhelming evidence that
they have flouted the law and their own regulations which state that I have the
right to have an adverse decision reviewed in the event that new evidence
emerges that can have a different outcome," he said. In a letter to Sedibe dated February 23 2018 FIFA's
Investigatory Chamber chairperson Maria Claudia Rojas expressly reminded him of
FIFA statutes that prohibit members from seeking relief from the football body's
sanctions in "ordinary courts of law". "We would like to point that as per art. 13 par. 2 of
the FIFA code of ethics, persons bound by this code are obliged, inter alia, to
respect FIFA's regulatory framework to the extent applicable to them. In this
respect, we would like to refer you likewise to art. 59 par. 2 of the FIFA
statutes, which prohibits the recourse to ordinary courts of law, unless
specifically provided for in the FIFA regulations," said Rojas in her
correspondence. Despite this, Van der Westhuizen went for the jugular, and in
a move that will most likely kick FIFA's legal machinery into action, he
further authorised the sheriff of the court to immediately execute the court
order. FIFA has been given 30 days to file its intention to oppose
the application. 'All that I want is to clear my name' Sedibe, who has also launched a $5m (R71.3m) lawsuit, said
he refused to bullied by FIFA and would not rest until it cleared his name. "I was treated very unfairly by both Safa and FIFA. All
my rights under the South African Constitution were violated by FIFA, which
conducted a mockery of an investigation, whose outcome was already
predetermined. But I have full confidence in our country's judicial system. I
have faith in God and I have faith that the truth will finally come out and the
real culprits will be exposed. "All that I want is to clear my name and my reputation
which has been severely tarnished by FIFA's tardiness and arrogance," said
Sedibe. Van der Westhuizen's ruling has further dealt a devastating
blow to FIFA and could open up the soccer body to a barrage of court action
from across the world by people who believe they had been unfairly dealt with
by the organisation's adjudicatory chamber of the Independent Ethics Committee. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  