Tammy Petersen Zahnia Woodward. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of the six people accused of the murder of baby Zahnia Woodward in a drive-by shooting two years ago is expected to enter a plea and sentencing agreement regarding her alleged involvement in the bloodbath that played out near a public park in Ocean View. The trial of Simaney Kindo - who was initially charged along with Christopher September, Larry Johnson, Taswill Kriel, Morné May and her aunt Mirriam Johnson - was separated from her co-accused in the Western Cape High Court on Monday, as she intends to enter a plea and sentencing agreement. However, an interpreter was not available and the matter was postponed until Tuesday. READ: She will never call me 'mommy' – mother of murdered 6-month-old baby She faces a charge of murder, 11 charges of attempted murder, as well as charges of illegal gun and ammunition possession and defeating the ends of justice. According to the State's summary of facts, September, Johnson, Kriel and May had been driving in Johnson's VW Golf in Ocean View in the late afternoon of December 30, 2016. Each of the men was armed with a gun and had opened fire on people as they sat in a road and a nearby park. After firing a volley of bullets, they allegedly shot at two people who attempted to stop them as they fled, the prosecution maintains. Six-month-old Zahnia had been sitting with her father Bradley Robyn at the park. She was hit by a bullet while on her father's arm. Robyn had reached for her dummy, which she spat out, when the bullet hit her in the head. Her father was also shot in the thigh, but still managed to drive Zahnia to hospital. #OurLostChildren: Remembering baby Zahnia - caught in gang crossfire Zahnia Woodward was six month old when she was murdered, killed by a single bullet to the head. (Aljoscha Kohlstock, News24) Her mother, Cindy, had returned from work and had just gotten out of a taxi when she heard that her baby had been hit. Zahnia died in the ambulance while being transferred to the Red Cross Children's Hospital, with her mother at her side. Robyn and four other people were hit during the shooting. Six others were also shot at, but escaped uninjured. The car was only discovered several days later. According to the State, Kindo and her aunt had hidden the vehicle from police to help the alleged gunmen evade prosecution. The trial against the remaining five is expected to commence on Tuesday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  