Kyle Cowan Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. (Alex Mitchley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, who is heading up the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture, has asked an allegedly "corrupt" Bosasa-linked company to stop security work while he investigates the deal. Last month, News24 revealed that Global Technology Systems (GTS) had been "nominated" for a deal potentially worth R10m for the installation of access control and security systems, including CCTV and X-ray scanners, at the commission’s new premises in Parktown, Johannesburg. GTS, formerly known as Sondolo IT, is a subsidiary company of African Global Operations, itself formerly known as Bosasa. A litany of allegations over alleged corruption involving state departments has plagued Bosasa companies and directors for more than a decade. On Tuesday, a spokesperson for the commission confirmed that Zondo had made progress and would provide an update on his probe into the GTS deal as soon as possible after he had finalised his own report. The commission itself is tasked with looking into corruption at all levels of government, particularly "state capture". The historical allegations against Bosasa fall within the commission’s terms of reference. "GTS was immediately asked to stop its work for the Commission when the issues were brought to the attention of the Commission," the spokesperson said. READ: Is Zondo commission tainted? A Special Investigating Unit (SIU) report, which was handed over to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in 2009, found that Bosasa officials had paid bribes to former prisons boss Linda Mti and Department of Correctional Services chief financial officer Patrick Gillingham to secure multimillion-rand tenders from the department. City Press revealed details of this report in 2011 and, in November last year, the NPA confirmed it had appointed a new team of prosecutors to probe the matter and reach a decision on whether or not to prosecute those implicated in the report. Sondolo IT (now Global Technology Systems), Bosasa Operations and Phezulu Fencing (another Bosasa subsidiary) were awarded tenders of more than R2bn to operate kitchens, install access control systems and fences at prisons around the country. These deals formed part of the SIU investigation. One of the current directors of GTS is politically-connected Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson. Following queries from News24, Zondo had requested that more information be made available to him relating to the issues raised. Total cost of R5m In a statement issued after News24’s revelations over the GTS deal, Zondo vowed to get to the bottom of the matter and make his findings public. GTS quotes seen by News24 - dated May 21, 2018 - show it will cost the commission R1.6m for project management fees. Access control systems, which includes 30 biometric scanners, magnetic door locks and an X-ray bag scanner will cost R1.8m and a CCTV system R700 000. The X-ray scanner is priced at R622 957 and a walk-through metal detector at R102 255. It will cost the commission a total of R5m for all the equipment and installation. On May 28, GTS submitted two more quotes - the provision of maintenance for the systems at R1.6m for a period of three years, and a further R3m for the provision of 12 "Grade B X-Ray Operators" - also for three years. Zondo will have to determine how GTS was appointed seemingly without any tender process and also why the company provided quotes for a three-year period more than a month before the commission approached the high court to seek a 180-day extension for its deadline. MORE: Zondo commission to probe alleged dodgy Bosasa deal 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  