Caryn Dolley iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack’s co-accused in an extortion case has been killed in a shooting in Cape Town on Sunday. Carl Lakay was killed just days after alleged Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome “Donkie” Booysen was wounded in a shooting in Kuils River, in an incident in which another man - the alleged gunman who tried to assassinate Booysen - was shot dead. Three sources on Sunday night confirmed Lakay was killed. It was initially understood, based on sources, he was murdered in Belhar. However, on Monday morning, Western Cape police spokesperson Captain Frederick van Wyk confirmed that a man, 45, who he did not identify, was killed while sitting in his car in the driveway of a premises in Goodwood. The shooting happened around 20.30 and a murder case was under investigation. The incident in which Booysen was targeted, which happened on Wednesday, marked the sixth attempt on Booysen’s life in just more than a year. READ: Who is trying to kill Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen and why? Previously during a court case relating to the underworld, police had alleged Booysen was linked to the nightclub security industry and was among a group of men who had rivals in the industry, which was causing tensions. Alleged rival nightclub security groupings Police alleged a rival grouping was headed by Modack. Lakay was among those who allegedly formed part of this rival grouping. He was accused of extortion with Modack, Colin Booysen - Jerome Booysen’s brother - Ashley Fields and Jacques Cronje. They appeared in the Cape Town Regional Court on Thursday where it was heard the man killed during the shootout in which Booysen was wounded last Wednesday had previously been at the court when Colin Booysen appeared the week before. Lakay was set to have gone on trial with Modack and their co-accused November for allegedly extorting a restaurant owner and forcing him to use security provided by a particular company. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  