Andile Sithole THE bail hearing of a man charged with the murder and rape of a seven-year old girl will resume next month after it was adjourned at the Verulam family court on Friday, August 10. Magistrate Irfaan Khallil said both cases were sensitive. The accused, Laston Moodley in his attempt to convince the court to consider his bail application, denied that he ever saw the deceased. In a sworn affidavit read out in court by his legal representative, Moodley claimed that on the day of the alleged incident he was at Spar in Waterloo. He claimed that when the police came to his flat in Hammonds Farm, they kicked the door open and assaulted him. He also claimed that the police stole R4000, his cellphone and bank card on the day of the arrest. “I will be pleading not guilty on all charges. I have no previous or pending convictions,” Moodley said in an affidavit. The state called in the investigating officer Captain Bonginkosi Zulu who is the commander in the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit to give a detail description of events that led up to the murder of the child. Zulu told the court that when police arrived at the scene they found blood stains in the house and the victim’s bloodied clothes were hidden in a KFC box. He told the court that the accused knew the victim as he had sent her to the shop to buy him a cigarette. Zulu told the court that after the incident there was a brewing tension in the Hammonds Farm community. The lawyer of the accused disputed the facts brought by Zulu, saying there was no solid evidence to link Moodley to both counts. The defense said the testimony of the state witnesses which are the children who allegedly saw the suspect and the victim on the day of the incident cannot be trusted. The victim was found with a stab wound to her chest and she died later in hospital. The matter was adjourned until September 3. The suspect will be kept in custody until his next court appearance. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  