Thamsanqa Mbovane Police are hunting a man accused of child rape. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A pall of thick black smoke covered Molly Blackburn Secondary School in Khayelitsha, Uitenhage, on Wednesday morning. According to GroundUp, scores of learners stood outside the gates, demanding six more teachers for Grade 10, 11 and 12 classes. They say they have been complaining since the beginning of this year. The learners, with satchels on their backs, sang and burnt tyres in front of the gate, blew whistles, and shouted "we have had enough!" The learners say the school is short of two Maths, two Physical Science, one Business Studies, and one Life Orientation teacher. Acting principal Mninawa Sitole arrived at the protest and told learners: "We are not happy that you are all outside the school." He said he had spoken to the district office in Port Elizabeth. "The problem is not in the school anymore… The matter is being handled at district level." Sitole was booed by the learners. "I can’t continue talking in this situation. I need to see your representatives," he said. The chairperson of the Representative Council of Learners, Lupelo Mkayi, who is 17 and in Grade 12, said: "Since the first term, we have had none of the needed six teachers. They keep sending us temporary tutors instead. And these tutors are not even trained as teachers… At times, we wrote exams without teachers in front of us." Eastern Cape Department of Education spokesperson Malibongwe Mtima said: "This matter is receiving the utmost attention it deserves. We hope that the school will receive these educators as soon as possible… "We are aware that the process is at the final phase… The recruitment process is underway. We appeal to learners to return to classes, as we cannot afford time now. Examinations are around the corner." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  