Mxolisi Mngadi ANC councillor Victor Molosi, who was shot and killed near his home. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 39-year-old man appeared in the Knysna Magistrate's Court on Monday on a charge of conspiring to murder ANC councillor Victor Molosi. Ward 8 councillor Molosi, 50, was shot at several times in Concordia on July 23 and died upon arrival at a hospital. Mandla Tyololo will remain in custody until his formal bail hearing on August 15, Southern Cape police spokesperson Captain Malcolm Pojie said. "Investigation into this matter is at an advanced stage and more arrests are imminent as the investigation unfolds," said Pojie. Pojie had previously said Tyololo was one of two suspects brought into the local police station on Friday. READ: We will find out soon if this is political – colleague of murdered ANC councillor The other man had not been linked to the crime as yet, News24 reported at the time. Molosi had apparently been on his way from a governing body meeting at Concordia High School when a gunman approached him, Pojie said at the time. The gunman fired several shots, hitting him in the head. 'A good soul' A task team of provincial and cluster detectives was assigned to investigate the case and a dedicated hotline was created for people to call in with information on the attacker or motive. The ANC's chief whip in Knysna, Mertle Gombo, who had known Molosi for many years, told News24 at the time that she did not think the attacker had come from the community. "This man was dedicated and committed to his community. To me, he was like Mandela," she said. "I think it is political. We will find out very soon. If the police are really doing what they are supposed to do, [we] will find out." Eden District Municipality ANC councillor Stephen de Vries also said at the time that, as far as he knew, Molosi was popular and had no enemies. They had known each other since 1999 when they worked together on the regional executive committee. "He was a very kind person, a gentleman, somebody with a good soul. Those are not words you normally hear when you hear people describing politicians." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  