Jeanette Chabalala and Kyle Cowan Radovan Krejcir (Mary-Ann Palmer, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Explosive new claims by fugitive Czech mobster Radovan Krejcir have triggered an investigation by South Africa’s police watchdog, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID), that could implicate a senior ANC politician. In a bombshell 17-page affidavit that News24 has seen, Krejcir has highlighted allegations of torture at the hands of his arresting officers and how the same former senior police officials allegedly manufactured evidence to put him and others behind bars. IPID has confirmed it is investigating the claims by Krejcir and two of his co-accused, Desai Luphondo and Jan Lefu Mofokeng. READ: Ex-bouncer linked to Krejcir arrested for money laundering Krejcir, Luphondo and Mofokeng and three others were convicted in 2015 on charges relating to the kidnap and torture of Bheki Lukhele whose brother, Doctor, had allegedly disappeared with 25kg of tik. The South Gauteng High Court found all three men guilty of attempted murder and kidnapping. Drugs Luphondo was found guilty of dealing in drugs while Krejcir and Mofokeng were found guilty of intent to deal drugs. Luphondo and Krejcir were sentenced to an effective 35 years in prison, while Mofokeng received an effective 15 years for his role. Krejcir has now told investigators that he believes his troubles came as a result of a R5m deal he reached with a senior politician and their relative in a bid to seek asylum papers to protect him from authorities in his home country. Krejcir claims he paid the politician’s relative R2.5m in 2011, but by 2013 they had not held up their end of the bargain. According to Krejcir soon after he started demanding his funds back, he came under investigation by a group of senior police officers, some who have now left the SAPS. READ: Former Gauteng Hawks head Sibiya denies all Krejcir corruption claims This, News24 understands, was a probe over and above existing investigations into Krejcir by the Hawks and Interpol, among other agencies. The ANC politician and former police officials cannot be named as the mobster's claims have yet to be corroborated. Some of the torture claims by Krejcir have already been made during his much-publicised trial relating to Lukhele, but new details about the actions of his arresting officers have given IPID investigators other avenues to explore in its fight against suspect cops. "The investigation is at an advanced stage, but that is all we can confirm at this time," IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini told News24. "IPID received complaints from two of Krejcir's co-accused, who had written to the Presidency. The credibility of the allegations will be determined by the investigation," Dlamini added. Ongoing investigation He would not be drawn into details contained in the affidavit. News24 has established however that the new Krejcir affidavit was taken by a senior IPID investigator at Leeuwkop Prison early in July as part of an ongoing investigation. Krejcir signed the document. The probe was launched after two letters by Luphondo and Mofokeng were sent to the Presidency and IPID in late February. Krejcir's lawyer Frank Cohen told News24 it was unclear why he had given the statement now. "I don't know why he is doing it. We knew that he wanted to submit the statement, but we didn't know what he wanted to submit. We didn't have any input in the statement," Cohen said. Senior sources in IPID confirmed that Krejcir's claims were being treated with caution but early indications are that the versions given by Krejcir, Luphondo and Mofokeng to IPID may corroborate one another. "Some technical evidence seems to be supporting the claims," the IPID source said. The investigation by IPID was focused solely on the allegations against current and former SAPS members, and did not extend to the claims involving politicians, the source explained. It is understood that the affidavit was also given to the Hawks. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi was yet to comment by the time of publication. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  