Jenna Etheridge Missing Cape Town businessman Liyaqat Parker. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Parow businessman Liyaqat Parker, who was kidnapped a month ago, has still not been returned safely to his family. Western Cape police said on Friday that there were no new developments to report. "Kindly be advised that the case is still under investigation," said Lieutenant Colonel Andre Traut. Parker, 65, was allegedly kidnapped by five unknown males around 09:10 at his business in Fairway Close, N1 City, on June 9. "Liyaqat is a devoted family man, a known astute businessman who built up the business through sheer hard work over many years, a community worker and philanthropist, having served as a member of The Friends of the Children’s Hospital Association for several years," his family said shortly after he was abducted. READ: Mapping the businessmen who have been kidnapped in SA since 2015 They thanked the community for the outpouring of support they had received since his disappearance. At the same time, they asked for the space and time to process the trauma. A double cab light delivery vehicle had followed Parker as he was driving into the basement. The armed men apparently forced the security guard at the gate into the toilet cubicle, where they took his cellphone and locked him up. "They then continued into the basement, where they forced the businessman into their vehicle and drove off in an unknown direction," police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said at the time. News24 previously reported that a senior source with direct knowledge of the case had said the ransom demand was 50 Bitcoin, which translated to about R4.3m. Family spokesperson and attorney Walid Brown, however, told News24: "I don't have such information, although I [am aware of] the rumour." Parker's kidnapping follows at least 14 similar cases that authorities have recorded since 2015. At least one businessman ended up dead, while Parker and at least two others remain missing. The actual number of these types of situations could be much higher, as it is understood that many kidnapping cases are dealt with privately and are never reported to the police because of threats.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  