AP and AFP Zimbabwe's state broadcaster says three people are dead after the military swept into the capital to disperse opposition supporters protesting Monday's election results. "The Zimbabwe Republic Police would like to confirm the unfortunate deaths of three people during the riots and melee which occurred in Harare Central business district," police spokesperson Charity Charamba told state television. This comes after the army opened fire in central Harare during demonstrations over alleged fraud in the country's elections. At Parirenyatwa Hospital in Harare, family members wept in the emergency room where one body lay on a stretcher. Ignatius Neshava identified him as 42-year-old Ishmeil Kumeni, a street vendor caught in the crossfire. Brighton Chizhande, chairperson of the Zimbabwe Doctors for Human Rights, says they have confirmed one death from a gunshot wound near the heart. He says the injured include people with deep wounds in the shoulder and in the buttocks and one person with a "gunshot wound to the penis." Zimbabwe's police say they have invoked a strict security act that forbids public gatherings after security forces swept into the capital to disperse hundreds of opposition protesters angry over Monday's election results. READ: Zimbabwe police invoke strict security act State broadcaster ZBC cites police spokesperson Charity Charamba as saying police asked for the military's help because they were "unable to cope". Police say the protesters caused "massive destruction of property" in Harare. Meanwhile, many Zimbabweans have expressed shock at the military firing live ammunition. Police say they have warned political leaders accused of incitement that "the long arm of the law will certainly catch up with them." Both the opposition and Western election observers have urged that presidential election results be released as soon as possible. ALSO SEE:  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  