Derrick Spies, Correspondent Athol Trollip will face another motion of no confidence. (Leon Sadiki, Gallo Images, City Press, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The African National Congress (ANC) says it has lodged five complaints against Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip with Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. The announcement, made on Tuesday, comes as a fourth round of motions of no confidence are tabled against Trollip, in a move by the opposition parties to oust the Democratic Alliance-led coalition government from the City. READ: Trollip's job on the line, again Trollip has dismissed the move, saying that the complaints listed by the ANC have all been addressed and answered in council. "These allegations have all been made before and have been answered, but they don't like the answers," he said. The five complaints against Trollip are that: ANC regional spokesperson Themba Xathula said if the public protector found any of the charges compelling, Trollip should be declared unfit to hold the position. Vote of no confidence Trollip is facing another vote of no confidence on Thursday, after the opposition parties, which include the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), ANC, PA, AIC, UF and UDM, called for a motion of no confidence in Trollip, council speaker Jonathan Lawack, and chief whip Werner Senekal. The parties, which hold 61 seats in the council, announced earlier this month that they would form a coalition to take the metro away from the DA-led coalition. Key to the opposition coalition securing the full 61 votes, has been the eligibility of ANC councillors Andile Lungisa, and Bongo Nombiba. Both have been convicted and sentenced, but have been released on bail pending their appeals on charges of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm and fraud respectively. Earlier this week, it was revealed that Nombiba's application for leave to appeal his fraud conviction and sentence was turned down by the High Court in Grahamstown. Nombiba's attorney, Ntsikelelo Mbewana, has indicated that Nombiba will apply to have his bail extended and petition the Supreme Court of Appeal. Lungisa's application for leave to appeal his conviction for the assault on DA councillor Rano Kayser and his effective two-year jail sentence, has been granted. Trollip said he was not concerned about the latest round of motions of no confidence. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  