Caryn Dolley Jerome “Donkie” Booysen. (Son) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Jerome "Donkie" Booysen, the alleged leader of the Sexy Boys gang, has been wounded in a shooting in Cape Town in yet another apparent attempt on his life. Police spokesperson Frederick van Wyk confirmed the shooting, which he said happened outside a shopping mall in Kuilsriver around 15:00.He confirmed one person was killed and a second wounded."Police are investigating a case of murder. Our crime scene experts are still on the scene, combing the area for clues," Van Wyk said. Booysen's associate Andre Naude confirmed that he was wounded in the arm and that a second man was shot dead in the incident. He said Booysen was doing "okay". Two other sources confirmed the shooting, which they said happened in the Soneike area. It is the sixth time he has been targeted in roughly a year. He was previously shot at five times and in two incidents, he was wounded. In June, Booysen told News24 he was a businessman and a father. READ: Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen - 'Gangsterism is not the way to go' "Where the people come on with this gangsterism and gangster stuff, they must come and prove it to me because maybe I don't have a lot of friends in the police and that's why they can point fingers because they [are] pointing the finger away from them," he said at the time. "To be honest with you, gangsterism is not the way to go. That's a full stop and it's a stop street. There's no future in gangsterism... I will say, rather go the legitimate way." Booysen's brother Colin Booysen is one of four accused, along with suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack, who were arrested late last year for allegedly extorting a restaurant owner and trying to force their security services on him. They are to go on trial for this. Police respond to a shooting in which Jerome "Donkie" Booysen was wounded (Supplied) Police respond to a shooting in which Jerome "Donkie" Booysen was wounded (Supplied) KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  