Kagiso Rabada. (Photo: Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Three of the six inmates who have escaped from Pollsmoor Prison have been rearrested, Atul and Ajay Gupta are out of the country and will not appear before the Eskom Inquiry and water saving, in particular, has been exceptionally successful in Cape Town, writes Helen Zille. Here are some of our top reads: SUSPENDED: ICC hit Rabada with series ban Kagiso Rabada has been suspended for South Africa’s next two Test matches after being found guilty of a Level 2 ICC Code of Conduct offence. Ex-SARS 'rogue unit' execs want summonses withdrawnThe legal representatives of three ex-SARS executives, who allegedly played a role in the so-called "rogue unit", have written to the NPA requesting that summonses against them be withdrawn. 'I won't do it. That thing is dead' – Malema on return to ANC EFF leader Julius Malema has made it clear that he will not be returning to the ANC. No 'nice' way to seize property – Maimane on land debate The Democratic Alliance announced that it would support land restitution and redistribution. Bride-to-be and entire bridal party die weeks before the wedding A bride-to-be and her bridal party have died weeks before the wedding, after their private jet crashed into a mountainside and burst into flames. Ramaphosa 'saddened' by way ANC veterans were treated by Zuma President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his regret over the relationship between the ANC stalwarts and his predecessor Jacob Zuma, Veterans League leader Snuki Zikalala has said.  Helen Zille: How we dramatically pushed back Day Zero The water crisis has positioned Cape Town at the forefront of water resilience, which is rapidly becoming a necessity for major cities world-wide. The Western Cape Premier highlights four aspects that helped stave off Day Zero. 3 Pollsmoor escapees rearrested Three of the six inmates who escaped from Pollsmoor Prison’s Medium B section in Cape Town have been rearrested. #EskomInquiry: Guptas, Myeni dodge state capture hot seat The Gupta brothers will not be appearing before the Eskom Inquiry, according to its chair Zukiswa Rantho. PICS: Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters stuns in traditional gown at Puteri Indonesia pageant Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters looked beautiful as she graced the stage at the Puteri Indonesia pageant. Kebaya number 2 ??#missuniverse A post shared by  Demi-Leigh | Miss Universe (@demileighnp) on Mar 10, 2018 at 9:16pm PST  Mugabe 'demands cash'... and 'he's been getting $20 000 a month': report Former president Robert Mugabe doesn't want to join cash-starved Zimbabwe's bank queues: he wants to get his money out in cash – just like he's always done. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  