(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories New York - The UN Security Council condemned violence during nationwide protests in Democratic Republic of Congo last month against President Joseph Kabila's extended rule and called on all parties on Wednesday to ensure that a long-delayed presidential election takes place on December 23. Kabila's mandate ended in December 2016 and he agreed to set an election by the end of 2017, but DRC's election commission said the vote couldn't be held until the end of this year. The council said in a statement after an open meeting and closed consultations that all provisions of DRC's December 31, 2016, election agreement must be carried out, including the release of all remaining political prisoners. It noted the release of 25 political prisoners so far. The top UN envoy for DRC, Leila Zerrougui, warned the council of the risk of violence in the run-up to the election. "A failure to generate confidence in the full and faithful implementation of the December 31 agreement will only serve to heighten political tensions, and to fuel the risks of inciting violence for political ends," she said. Zerrougui called the humanitarian situation in DRC "shocking," saying the number of people displaced from their homes who need assistance has reached 4.5 million, the highest number in Africa. Hundreds of thousands more have sought refuge in neighbouring countries, she said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. "Over 7.7 million people face severe food insecurity throughout the country," she said. "More than 2 million children are severely malnourished and require urgent assistance," but relief efforts are hampered because of "critically low levels of funding." While attention has been focused on the electoral process, Zerrougui said the security situation in DRC has continued to deteriorate, bringing "increased risks for renewed instability in many parts of the country." In recent months, anti-government protests have also led to violent and deadly responses from Kabila's security forces. Zerrougui criticised Congolese security forces, saying they engaged in "the disproportionate use of force" during peaceful protests on December 31, January 21 and February 25. The Security Council condemned the violence used during the February 25 nationwide protests and expressed regret at the loss of life. Organisers said security forces fatally shot at least four people and wounded dozens more. The council also urged DRC authorities "to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially the right of peaceful assembly, and to exercise maximum restraint in their response to protests." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  