Mxolisi Mngadi Former president Jacob Zuma attends a church service at the KwaMashu Christian Centre. (Mxolisi Mngadi/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban
– Former president Jacob Zuma has implied that opposition parties would only
defeat the ANC "with their hearts". He said it was "absolutely
certain" that the ANC will win the 2019 elections. "There's no doubt about
that. The ANC is big, it has support of
the country. I know no other party that is in every corner of the country,
except the ANC," he told reporters after his walkabout at Bridge City
shopping centre in KwaMashu, north of Durban. He then laughingly implied that
opposition parties would not defeat the ANC in the next election. "I know that there are
always predictions that people make about the ANC. Those who defeat it with
their hearts," he said. Zuma reiterated that he was still
going to vote for the ANC. "For some of us, our votes
are not secret, they are very open. We don't hide it. It's us, we vote for the
ANC. I can vote even if you're all looking at me, that's not a problem,"
he said. Zuma's visit to the township was
part of the ANC's voter registration drive ahead of the 2019 national
elections. He was in the area with his full
security detail.  During his walkabout at the
shopping centre, Zuma distributed ANC pamphlets and greeted shoppers and
workers. He also took selfies with the
people who seemed excited to meet Zuma in person. He said for now they were only there to remind people to register to vote
or check their details with the IEC. "You need your details to be
correct in the voters roll so that you can exercise your right to vote. We are
saying it's absolutely important that you are part of the voters' roll, in
terms of your name. Don't take things for granted. It's important that you're
in total preparation to vote,"' he said. He said when the full
electioneering campaign starts, they'll ask people to vote for the ANC. Zuma, who resigned a day after
the ANC NEC decided to recall him in February, had promised that he would be
part of his party's election campaigns even after the recall. "We will convey that message
and reasons why you should vote ANC. That time is coming, for now we're saying be ready, check and be part of
it. It's your right, this right was fought for, people died for this right
amongst other things," he said. Zuma denied that he was
campaigning in KZN because of his popularity in the province. "I always come here during
this time. I vote at Nkandla and I come to check where I vote. It becomes very
convenient that I do this kind of activity here. Otherwise If I go to another place I won't check my registration.
It is not about popularity because the ANC is popular throughout the
country," he said.  Zuma had earlier attended a
church service at the KwaMashu Christian Centre (KCC). "We started at KCC, where we
wanted to be part with the people who are in the church and get the word of God
as well. But also alert them on this very
important message we're talking about and we were received very well," he
said. He was accompanied by ANC NEC
member Nomacawe Mafu and ANC KZN provincial interim committee coordinator Sihle
Zikalala. Addressing the congregation, Zuma
said: "We decided to start here in church to gain strength as we would be
embarking on a voter registration drive the whole day." He also encouraged church members
to register to vote. "If those who believe vote for us, then we know we're blessed,"
he said. Zuma later conducted a
door-to-door campaign at the township's J section.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  