Amanda Khoza and Christina Pitt Nomawethu Kunene. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories With each passing day family members of missing whistleblower Nomawethu Kunene lose hope that she is still alive. It has been a month since Kunene mysteriously disappeared. Her niece Andisiwe Nyembezi said, while the family had hope that she would be found alive, they had to face the reality that she might have been killed. "We haven't heard much from the police since we reported her missing. All they keep saying is that they are investigating." Nyembezi said, if her aunt is no longer alive, the family would like for her body to be found so that she can have a dignified burial. "The only thing that we do not know is whether she is still alive. If she is not, we are hoping that we at least find her body." She said it was highly unlikely that a person would disappear for longer than a month without telling their family. READ: Missing whistleblower's family pleads for her safe return "It is really heartbreaking. We are hoping that she is still alive but the hope is diminishing with each day that passes. While we are hopeful, we have to think about her not being alive," she said. Kunene previously told News24 that her 42-year-old aunt was a director at West Rand-based NGO, A Re Ageng Social Services. The two last spoke to one another on February 26. "We were okay and she didn't mention that she was going anywhere. She didn't show that anything was wrong," said the Carletonville woman. "In a way, my aunt's life was in danger because there was conflict between her organisation A Re Ageng Social Services, where she was the deputy director, and the Department of Social Development." Nyembesi said the matter involved Kunene blowing the whistle on corruption that allegedly involved money laundering at the department. Co-founder of A re Ageng, Mpule Thejane, suspects there was something sinister behind her colleague's disappearance. 'Noma was kidnapped' "Noma did not disappear. I have known her for years and she loves her children. Her kids are in tertiary [institutions] so she wouldn't just abandon them. Noma was kidnapped," she said. Thejane strongly believes that Kunene's abductors will not release her. "When Noma was arrested (for a theft charge) it had nothing to do with A Re Ageng, but all of the officials from the department were present in court. "We are the complainants in another case because of the Department of Social Development (DSD) harassment. The department failed us. Imagine the trauma her children have to go through," said Thejane. DSD spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said that he was not aware of the legal action. "The important thing to remember is that the police aren't talking to us either. Just like everybody else, we are very puzzled," he said. Lieutenant Colonel Kay Makhubela said the police were still investigating the circumstances surrounding her disappearance.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  