Julius Malema, leader of the EFF (Picture: Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Julius Malema was birthed by Jacob Zuma.
Trained at his knee within the structure of the ANCYL, he rose to the position
of the president of that organisation. Malema, it would seem, was not only willing
to kill for Zuma, but also quite happy to die for him. At the risk of stating the obvious, he must
have admired him a lot. But then, in 2013, the relationship soured
and Malema was expelled from the ANC. He was cast asunder and he was not happy.
Not one bit. And so, he changed his mind and he swore to remove Zuma from
office. Which he pretty much did. Some of the defining characteristics of Zuma’s
leadership include his charisma, his understanding of grass roots concerns, his
ability to tap in populistic issues, intimidation and racial divisiveness. He
fed the country a diet of "white monopoly capital" and even stoked
the fires of tribalism when necessary. He was a master of dividing to rule and
he had no qualms about turning South Africans against each other. In fact, it
became his "safe space". Ironically, in doing so, he successfully
united the people of the country in their hatred of him and their desire to
return to honest and ethical leadership. Nelson Mandela would have been proud
of how he blurred racial lines and how cohesive the nation had become. And now he is gone. But that unintended consequence aside, the
desire to remove Zuma was one of Malema’s differentiators. He openly stated
that he would bring the ANC to its knees and would not give up until Zuma was
removed from the position. As a result, he made deals with the DA, caused as
much havoc in Parliament as possible and inflicted untold damage to his former
party. Unfortunately for Malema, with his goals
achieved and with Zuma out the picture, he has found himself without a cause.
It is clearly a struggle for him to remain relevant and so he seems to have
reverted to his early training on the knee of his mentor. Suddenly, it is a concern for Malema that Nelson
Mandela Bay mayor, Athol Trollip, is white. Again, to state the obvious, he is
no whiter than he was when the EFF agreed to the coalition in PE, but Malema
has made it clear that the reason that he is attacking him is because of race.
Sound familiar? The populist issue of expropriation of land
without compensation is one that Malema has suddenly decided to drive. Long been
a cause of the ANC, they seemed to stand by stupidly as Malema snatched this
from them. He now owns it and he didn’t even pay for it. The fact that this has
long been catered for in the Constitution and that this discussion is long
overdue aside, it is very clearly an attempt to address grass root issues.
Sound familiar. His charismatic style of leadership, his
"man of the people" energy stands in direct contrast to the ponderous
and tactical Cyril Ramaphosa. And one gets the sense that we are about to
witness a Zuma/ Mbeki conflict all over again. The danger of an EFF/ANC coalition is a
real one. Not only for the ANC, who has enough issues of its own to deal with,
but for the people of the country who might well return to a Zuma style
leadership quicker than they thought possible. There is comfort in the fact that Zuma is
no longer the president. What he didn’t realise, and Julius Malema needs to note,
is that South Africans don’t want to be divided. South Africans are tired of
the racial chasm and they desperately seek unity. Zuma unintentionally illustrated very
clearly that South Africans all want the same thing: honest leadership, an
economy that is robust and inclusive and a future for the children of the
country. To not recognise this is to miscalculate on a massive scale. Malema needs to be cautious with regard to
some of the lessons that he learned early on in his political career and take note
about what has become of the leader that he was prepared to kill for. And to
die for. Because if he doesn’t take note of this and if he continues to try and
divide, his political career might do just that.   