Mnangagwa 'shocked' as 112 political parties register with electoral body ZEC Harare – President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly questioned the authenticity of the number of new political parties that have been formed in the past few months to contest this year's elections. According to NewsDay, Mnangagwa said that he was shocked by reports that at least 112 political parties had registered with the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) to contest the elections. He said he would soon "order an investigation to find if the political parties were genuine". For more on this story click here Just 1 schoolgirl left in hands of Boko Haram and 'won't be abandoned', says Nigerian leader Lagos - Just one Nigerian schoolgirl is still held by Boko Haram after the extremists released 104 classmates seized in a mass abduction and she "will not be abandoned," President Muhammadu Buhari said on Thursday, with no word on five girls still unaccounted for who are said to be dead and buried. The president's statement calls Leah Sharibu "the only Dapchi schoolgirl still in captivity" after the extraordinary release of the girls on Wednesday. Freed girls and parents have said Sharibu is Christian and still captive "because they want to convert her to Islam". For more on this story click here 'Disband compromised Zim electoral body and allow UN to supervise vote,' govt told Harare – Zimbabwe's trade union umbrella body has reportedly called on government to "disband" the country's electoral body, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC), and "allow the United Nations to supervise" the upcoming general elections. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU), said this following the recent trip to Russia by ZEC's chairperson Justice Priscilla Chigumbu in the company of President Emmerson Mnangagwa's special advisor Chris Mtsvangwa. Read more on this story here Zambia opposition seeks to impeach president Lusaka - Zambia's main opposition party has filed a motion to impeach President Edgar Lungu for violating the constitution, the presidency said on Friday, in the latest development following a disputed 2016 election. The impeachment motion will be put before parliament on March 28 by the United Party for National Development (UPND). Although it could win support from some members of the ruling Patriotic Front (PF), such as former minister Chishimba Kambwili, a leading Lungu critic who was arrested on Thursday, it looked set to be easily defeated. For more on this story click here 'I would rather remain in retirement than join a party linked to Mugabe,' says ex-minister Harare – A Zimbabwean ex-minister has reportedly rejected ex-president Robert Mugabe's invitation to join a newly formed political outfit which is believed to be enjoying the nonagenarian's support. According to Daily News, ex-state security minister Didymus Mutasa said he rejected joining the New Patriotic Front (NPF) party, adding that he would rather remain in retirement than join a "tribalistic" party. Mutasa described the NPF as the former ruler's project, saying that it was not different from the ruling Zanu-PF party. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  