Kaveel Singh Striking staff at the Durban University of Technology (File, Kaveel Singh, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – Wage negotiations between Durban University of Technology (DUT) and striking staff were unable to reach a conclusion, despite hopes that they would finalise their talks by the weekend. "After three days of another mediation process, presided over by the Commissioners from the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA), negotiations between DUT and three labour unions could not be concluded," DUT spokesperson Alan Khan said on Friday afternoon. Khan said all stakeholders would "report to their principals on Monday" and that all negotiating parties will reconvene again on Wednesday, March 7. Lectures will resume by Monday. Deputy Minister for Higher Education Buti Manamela was at DUT on Tuesday when the National Tertiary Education Union (NTEU), National Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) and Tertiary Education National Union of SA (Tenusa) agreed to go to the negotiating table with university management. READ: Students march in solidarity with striking DUT workers "The parties have agreed to resume with negotiations and reactivate the bargaining process," he said at the time. Talks reached a deadlock as a seven-week strike at the university raged on. Unions have been demanding an increase in salaries and other benefits. Striking staff on Tuesday marched to the offices of vice-chancellor, Professor Thandwa Mthembu, after meeting at Curries Fountain. They received large support including students. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader at DUT Bonginkosi "Education" Khanyile, said the party's national leader Julius Malema, had pledged to visit KZN to help resolve the matter if an agreement could not be reached. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  