(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – A flood warning has been issued as heavy rains persist on the interior parts of the country, The South African Post Office website is down allegedly due to unpaid domain fees and 3000 Zim prisoners freed. De Lille disciplinary postponed indefinitely Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille said that she was frustrated that her disciplinary hearing was postponed indefinitely after a panelist recused himself. 'Critics are dead to me' - Aus minister Dutton pushes ahead with white SA farmer plan A senior Australian minister vowed on Thursday to press on with a plan to bring white South African farmers to Australia, hitting out at criticism from "crazy lefties" who he said were "dead to me". Zim President Mnangagwa pardons 3 000 prisoners to clear packed jails Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who succeeded ousted Robert Mugabe in November, has pardoned at least 3 000 prisoners to clear out overpopulated jails, officials said. Basic Education department to implement urgent sanitation audit following pit toilet death Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has committed to abide by the Presidency's instructions for an audit of school sanitation facilities within three months. Cape farmers lose 25% of orchards, vineyards as result of drought - expert Drought-stricken farmers in the Western Cape have had to abandon at least a quarter of their high-value vineyards and deciduous fruit orchards because of a lack of water for irrigation. Flood warning issued as heavy rains persist The South African Weather Service has issued a severe weather warning for interior parts of the country as heavy rain is predicted for the next two days.  SA Post Office website down for days The website of the South African Post Office has been down for an unknown number of days, allegedly due to unpaid domain fees. 'Angry' crocodile blocks entrance to Zim hospital - report A crocodile blocked the entrance to a hospital in the middle of Zimbabwe's coal-mining town of Hwange, sparking panic – and some very bizarre stories, a newspaper reported on Thursday. "I’m a white woman, I am previously advantaged and privileged." We need to talk about the land I’ve been so afraid of talking about this subject, particularly on an online platform, because we live in an age where if you say something uninformed and politically incorrect – you stand the chance of not only costing yourself your professional credibility, but you can take an entire company down with you. EXPLAINER: Africa's free trade dream Africans don't do much business with each other. Only 16% of the trade in the continent is with itself, the rest is with the outside. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  