Wayde van Niekerk. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – The National Prosecuting Authority boss Shaun Abrahams has no choice but to charge Jacob Zuma, writes Adriaan Basson, the "world's most comfortable shoe" is now made from South African trees and an emirates hostess who "fell off" a plane bound for Dubai dies. Scroll through some of today's top stories: NPA reinstates charges against former president Jacob Zuma The NPA will prosecute former president Jacob Zuma on 16 charges of corruption, money laundering and racketeering. Abrahams has no other choice but to charge Zuma If Abrahams had any shred of decency, he would have waited for the Constitutional Court to rule whether he should be in his job before making the announcement. But he is too arrogant for that, writes Adriaan Basson. Rand steady on Zuma prosecution announcement The rand was steady on Friday afternoon after National Prosecuting Authority boss Shaun Abrahams announced that the prosecution of President Jacob Zuma would go ahead. WATCH: NPA announces decision on Zuma charges National Prosecuting Authority boss Shaun Abrahams mad his much-anticipated announcement on whether or not former president Jacob Zuma will be facing criminal charges.  SA govt 'over the top' on white farmer immigration response - Australian deputy PM Australia's deputy prime minister says his country has good relations with South Africa, amid a storm over immigration. 20-year-old smashes Wayde's 200m SA record Twenty-year-old Clarence Munyai has broken Wayde van Niekerk's 200m South African record at the ASA Senior Championships at Tuks Stadium in Pretoria. Women in SA earn 27% less than men, states study Pay inequality between men and women is one of the reasons so many women in South Africa are not able to retire comfortably, according to Emma Heap, head of retail at 10X Investments. Rainbow polony privately cleared of deadly listeria strain – RCL Foods None of the ST6 listeria strain believed to be behind the outbreak that has left 183 people dead since January 2017, was found at the Rainbow polony factory in Wolwehoek, RCL Foods said on Friday amid a precautionary recall of its polony. 'World's most comfortable shoe' now made from South African invasive trees Allbirds, the footwear-maker of choice among tech workers in Silicon Valley and self-proclaimed makers of the world's most comfortable shoe, turned to South Africa for its latest product. Emirates airhostess who fell from plane dies… she 'had injuries all over her face' - report An Emirates Arline hostess, who fell from the emergency door of a parked aeroplane at Entebbe airport in Uganda, has reportedly died. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  