Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Kabul — An Islamic State suicide bomber struck on the road to a Shiite shrine in Afghanistan's capital on Wednesday, killing at least 33 people as Afghans celebrated the Persian new year. The Public Health Ministry said another 52 people were wounded in the attack, which was carried out by a bomber on foot. ISIS claimed the attack in an online statement, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadi websites. ISIS said the attack targeted "a gathering of Shiites celebrating Nowruz". The Persian new year, known in Afghanistan as Nowruz, is a national holiday, and the country's minority Shiites typically celebrate by visiting shrines. The Sunni extremists of ISIS have repeatedly targeted Shiites, who they view as apostates deserving of death. The attack took place near Kabul University and a government hospital, around 1km away from the Sakhi shrine, where people were gathered to celebrate the new year, said General Daud Amin, Kabul's police chief. Daud said the attacker managed to slip past police checkpoints set up along the road. He said an investigation into the security breach is underway, and that anyone found to have neglected his duties would be punished. This attack happens as earlier this month in another Islamic State suicide bomber targeted Afghanistan's ethnic Hazaras, killing nine people and wounded 18 others. The bomber blew himself up at a police checkpoint near a gathering of the minority Shiites in western Kabul. The bomber was on foot and was trying to make his way to a compound where the Hazaras had gathered to commemorate the 1995 death of their leader, Abdul Ali Mazari, who was killed by the Taliban. Kabul has recently seen a spate of large-scale militant attacks by the Taliban and also Islamic States group. In late January, a Taliban attacker drove an ambulance filled with explosives into the heart of the city, killing at least 103 people and wounding as many as 235. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in a statement condemned the attack, calling it a "crime against humanity," Despite today's attack and loss of lives in Kabul soon in the afternoon people including women and children came out on the streets with colorful clothes and continue to celebrate the New Year holiday, children are flying kites and people are walking up the hills, shrines and other sides, eating, chatting or laughing, like nothing has ever happened in Kabul today. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  