Rassie Erasmus (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – ANC eyes 'overwhelming victory' in 2019 elections with dream team, axed minister of public enterprises Lynne Brown's 24-year career as a public representative comes to an end as she resigns as MP and warning issued that raid on Jacques Pauw's home is a threat to media freedom. Have a look at some of our top stories for the day: Ramaphosa: Land motion 'no reason to panic or start beating war drums' President Cyril Ramaphosa said there is no reason to "panic and start beating war drums" over Parliament's decision to look at land expropriation without compensation. 'Pressing' hunger for land? The stats show something different Opinion polls done from 2015 to 2017 have repeatedly shown that the great majority of black South Africans have little interest in land reform, writes Anthea Jeffery. Beleaguered Brown quits as MP after 24-year career as public representative Beleaguered former minister of public enterprises Lynne Brown has resigned as an ANC MP, bringing to end a career of 24 years as a public representative. Jacques Pauw raid a threat to media freedom - Sanef The SA National Editors' Forum has condemned the raid at author Jacques Pauw's Riebeek Kasteel home, saying it is a threat to media freedom.  Erasmus: Stick will add massive value to Boks New Springbok coach Rassie Erasmus is confident that his assistant Mzwandile Stick will add a valuable contribution to the team. Royal duty: Meghan Markle is ready to focus on women's empowerment Meghan Markle says she hopes to "hit the ground running" as a royal and use her position to highlight the empowerment of women. ANC bolsters its election machinery for 'overwhelming victory' in 2019 electionsANC member Febe Potgieter-Gqubule has quit as an SABC board member, just five months after she was formally appointed, and has swapped her position at the public broadcaster for a permanent job as the ruling party's general manager. WATCH: Waterfront desalination plant set to come online soon The City of Cape Town's water augmentation schemes are making progress with the Waterfront desalination plant set to come online by the end of March, said Deputy mayor of Cape Town Ian Neilson.  Steinhoff accounting scandal may date back to at least 2014 - reports Leaked emails appear to show evidence that former Steinhoff CEO Markus Jooste was in contact with German Steinhoff managers in 2014 about allegedly manipulating data. Suspected ISIS couple appears in KZN court Two people accused of having links to terror group ISIS and the kidnapping of a world renowned horticultural couple have made a brief appearance in the Verulam Magistrate's Court. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  