Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Motorists can expect some relief as petrol prices drop, the killing of a Taxify driver has been condemned and a video of a SAPS van driving over a dog goes viral. Have a look at a some of our top stories for the day: Treasury open to reviewing zero-rated VAT items Treasury plans to take a collaborative approach in the consideration of goods to be added to the list of zero-rated items, Parliament has heard. 6 must-watch weekend sporting events It's the weekend! But the sporting world never sleeps, so hang on tight and be sure to watch these six events. More relief at the pumps for motorists Motorists will get some relief at the pumps for March, with the pump price of petrol dropping 36 cents a litre, the Department of Energy has announced. Here's who will be attending the royal wedding in May Kensington Palace revealed in a statement who the royal couple will be inviting from the public to attend their special day.  SASF joins Inxeba producers in court challenge over porn rating The South African Screen Federation says it will be joining the producers of the film Inxeba when they approach the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria to get its porn rating overturned. EFF hits back at DA over Equality Court threat The EFF says the "deliberate misrepresentation" of its leader Julius Malema's statements as hate speech will not stop it from punishing the DA for its attitude on the land question. Killing of Taxify driver condemned Gauteng community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane has condemned as senseless the killing of Siyabonga Langelihle Ngcobo whose body was found in the boot of a burnt Taxify vehicle. 'Horror' as doctor cuts open wrong patient's head – reports A Kenyan doctor has reportedly been suspended after performing a brain surgery on the wrong patient. WATCH: Police van drives over dog in Elsies River A video has emerged of a SAPS van seemingly making no attempt to avoid a dog sleeping in the road, and driving over it.  24.com wins big at Bookmark Awards 24.com has walked away with several awards at the Bookmark Awards in Johannesburg, including the coveted Black Pixel as Best Publisher. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  