Iavan Pijoos Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille (File, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – The mayor of Cape Town, Patricia de Lille, says
her biggest concern ahead of her disciplinary hearing on Tuesday is to ensure
that the public understands what the charges against her are about. De Lille has been the focus of several serious allegations
and claims, but she survived a motion of no confidence last month. DA Federal Council chairperson James Selfe said the hearing
had been set down for four days, and they were hoping they would be able to
conclude the matter within that time. READ: De Lille hearing to begin on Tuesday De Lille said in a statement on Sunday that she was looking
forward to having the allegations properly tested. She said reports of her being accused of covering up
corruption perpetrated by City of Cape Town officials, more particularly the
actions of Commissioner for Transport, Melissa Whitehead, were not true. "In fact, the bulk of the charges concern allegations
of highly technical transgressions which do not involve me at all, other than
the contention that as the 'boss' of the City, I should be held liable." De Lille said the charges originated from reports compiled
by the Executive Director in her office, Craig Kesson, who is also being
investigated by the law firm Bowman Gilfillan. She denied being accused of corruption in any of these
matters. "These matters are technical in nature and fall under
the jurisdiction of senior administrative leadership in the City. Why the party
is pursing me on this issue baffles the mind." She said that in the Steenhuisen report it was suggested
that the party await the outcome of the City’s processes, but this had been
disregarded. "I am challenging the Steenhuisen report in court, but
I was careful to exclude from that challenge any parts of the report which are
the subject of the disciplinary hearing." She believed decisions within the party were taken by three
or four individuals who "rushed around putting different hats on as they
go along". News24 previously reported that, in September, it had
emerged that a subcommittee, headed by parliamentary whip John Steenhuisen, had
been established by the DA's federal executive to look into tensions and
political management in the City of Cape Town. Several councillors testified and several allegations were
made against De Lille and others. READ: The DA's scathing findings against De Lille News24 understands that De Lille’s legal team had asked for
supporting documents related to the Steenhuisen report, such as affidavits of
unnamed City of Cape Town officials who complained about her behaviour. It had also apparently wanted the original correspondence
from JP Smith over the shutting down of the City’s special investigations unit,
which led to the unearthing of the claims against her. The scope and terms of
reference given to the "Steenhuisen Commission" were also requested. In an interview earlier this month, Selfe told News24 that
the DA believed they had a strong case against De Lille, and that the
prosecution was being led by legal commission chairperson, Glynnis Breytenbach. READ: Voters are fair and know who to blame - Selfe on DA's challenges According to De Lille, her hearing is expected to be chaired
by Tlokwe Councillor Hans-Jurie Moolman, fellow councillor Pogiso Monchusi and
former Deputy Minister of Justice in Apartheid South Africa, Sheila Camerer. De Lille did not believe Camerer was "competent or suitable
to hear the matter." "To the best of my knowledge, she hasn’t practiced law
in decades and she is a known political opponent."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  