Tendai "Beast" Mtawarira (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe has reportedly flown to South Africa for the first time since his ouster, a Herbertsdale farmer who allegedly drove a bulldozer into the home of farm workers remains behind bars and the CSA has announced the Proteas who will be awarded national contracts for the 2018-19 season. SA man among missing crew following fire on vessel in the Arabian Sea A South African man is one of four people missing after a fire broke out on the Maersk Honam cargo vessel in the Arabian Sea on Tuesday. 'This flag is now expropriated without compensation' The activist who invited people to walk on an old South African flag outside the Woordfees in Stellenbosch, said his point was proven after someone tried to steal the flag on Thursday morning. Farmhouse 'bulldozing' farmer remains behind bars A Herbertsdale farmer, who allegedly drove a bulldozer into the home of farm workers, is to remain behind bars until he formally applies for bail. Baxter blames 'whole system' for current state of Bafana Bafana Bafana head coach Stuart Baxter on Tuesday, March 6 met with members of the media to articulate his vision going forward. Is Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip on his way out? DA-led coalitions are beginning to crumble, at least in Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB) in the Eastern Cape. News24 understands that the EFF in the region is leading talks with other opposition leaders to build a motion of no confidence against NMB Mayor Athol Trollip. 'I don't know why they would do something like that to me' – chainsaw attack triathlete speaks to News24 A KwaZulu-Natal triathlete who was attacked with a chainsaw while training, says he will not focus on negative aspects, but make a full recovery instead and "get back out there". Serena Williams makes a tennis comeback with an empowering ‘S’ Serena Williams is making her pro-tennis comeback and we are supporting her all the way. It's official. My comeback is here. This Thursday I will start playing tennis again professionally for the first time since giving birth to my daughter. This whole month I am playing tournaments in California and Florida- both my home states. Thursday, the day I play my very first match, marks international women's day. My comeback could not have come on a better day and I decided I wanted to do something different let you all be apart of my long journey back (if you want of course!!) So I created my Serena Gold toned "S" pin. When I am playing you can wear it and show support not only from me but also for my charity which supports the Yetunde Price Resource center. I want this gold "S" mean something special to you personally. What is one S word in your life that means something to you? Mine is Strong and Sure! So when I wear my "S" pin I am representing Strength, and Sureness. What would your "S" mean? They are for now only available for my fans that come see my at Indian wells, and Miami starting Wednesday as well as Thursday when I play!! Sooooo if you are watching me stop by the Serena booth to grab a "S" pin. Post pics of you wearing your "S" and tag me! Thanks for the support I look forward to seeing you out there!! A post shared by  Serena Williams (@serenawilliams) on Mar 7, 2018 at 7:16am PST  'Beast' scrums down for new Sharks record Tendai "Beast" Mtawarira will become the most-capped Sharks Super Rugby player of all time when he takes to the field against the Sunwolves at Kings Park on Saturday. Hawks raid North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo's offices The Hawks are raiding the offices of North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo looking for documents related to the multimillion-rand IT contract with Nepo Data Dynamics. Mugabe 'flies to SA' amid mounting tensions in Zimbabwe - reports Former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe reportedly flew to South Africa on Wednesday - for the first time since his ouster from power in November - aboard an Air Zimbabwe flight. Markram, Ngidi handed Proteas contracts Cricket South Africa (CSA) has announced the Proteas who will be awarded national contracts for the 2018-19 season.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  