Khatija Nxedlana PHOTO: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It’s
now been a full week since a Roodepoort mother saw her three-year-old son. Liyaqat
“Lee” Akeem Mentoor was last seen on Friday, 16 March outside his grandmother’s
house on Bottlebrush Street in Roodekrans. The
family says his mother’s boyfriend, who has not been named, was meant to drop
him off at his grandmother’s house around 5pm on Friday. But the man arrived
with Lee too early and no one was home at the time. It’s
alleged an unidentified woman in a VW Polo introduced herself to him as a
family member, saying she was on her way to Westgate to fetch Lee’s grandmother
from the mall. The man then handed Lee over to her. Family
spokesperson Estelle Delport says while police continue with their
investigation, the family is working on getting pictures of Lee out there. “We
will be handing out pamphlets at Westgate and Northgate malls,” she told YOU.
“Tomorrow we will get together and hand out more pamphlets in the area to
create awareness.” Several
people have approached the family with information, which they passed on to the
authorities. “The
police also said they don’t want to get our hopes up and give us information on
every single lead,” she added. “You don’t know how it feels having your hopes
up and being disappointed. “It’s
been a week and still nothing, it breaks our hearts, the mom is beginning to
crack now,” Estelle said. “She’s
trying to be strong but emotionally and physically, she’s reaching breaking
point.” Estelle
has urged people to continue sharing the posts online. Meanwhile
the boyfriend, who was taken into custody last Friday, will appear in the
Roodepoort Magistrates Court on Monday for his second appearance.  Anyone
with more information is urged to contact JHB West FCS Unit Standby on 060 502
0695 or Captain J Pretorius on 082 447 3984. Alternatively,
Pink Ladies on 072 214 7439/083 378
4882/072 620 7704. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  