Jan Bornman Police investigators work the scene of the police shooting in Ngcobo. (Ziyanda Zweni, Daily Sun, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Ngcobo - A sixth person is expected to appear in the Ngcobo Magistrate's Court on Thursday in connection with the killing of five police officers and a soldier in Ngcobo in the Eastern Cape. The man was arrested on Tuesday night at the controversial Seven Angels Ministry, Eastern Cape Hawks spokesperson Captain Anelisa Feni told News24. "He was found in possession of an unlawful firearm. It was one of the firearms that were stolen from the police station where the officers were killed," Feni alleged. On Monday, a 19-year-old and three others appeared in court in connection with the shooting. News24 reported that the 19-year-old changed his mind about wanting to be released on bail during his first appearance. Next to him were his three co-accused, aged 22, 23 and 30. The men cannot be identified until an identity parade has been conducted. READ: Sixth suspect arrested for Ngcobo massacre During his first address as minister, Police Minister Bheki Cele said the men involved in the shootout conspired to rob the Capitec Bank ATM opposite the police station and identified the police station as a place to get firearms. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) welcomed the arrests and condemned the attack on the police officers. "We welcome the speedy reaction demonstrated by our men and women in blue in apprehending some of the alleged perpetrators of the senseless killing of the police officers and the recovery of the stolen firearms," Richard Mamabolo, Popcru spokesperson said in a statement. "It is under such circumstances where police and community members work closely together that we can jointly combat criminal activities within our communities, and we encourage such relations to continue as crime can no longer be seen as a uniquely police issue," Mamabolo said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  