Grace Mugabe (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – The University of Zimbabwe (UZ) Vice Chancellor Levi Nyagura, who was recently suspended after he was arrested on charges of abuse of office over former first lady Grace Mugabe's 'fake' PhD  is reportedly still reporting for duty. The university council took the decision to suspend Nyagura last month after several hours of "very heated debate". Nyagura was arrested in mid-February by the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC), which was investigating whether a PhD was wrongly awarded to the former first lady in 2014. Academics at the university had petitioned ZACC to carry out the probe, saying the way in which the doctorate was awarded was "very suspicious". Nyagura was currently out of custody on bail, facing charges of abuse of office. New Zimbabwe.com reported this week that Nyagura was still reporting for duty despite being suspended on full pay. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Nyagura was supposed to have been on suspension until his ongoing trial was concluded, but a senior university staff, Advocate Thembinkosi Magwaliba said that he was reporting for duty, making the "situation at the university highly tense". "I have learnt over the past week that Professor Nyagura has been attending to his normal duties. He has not been issued with a letter placing him on indefinite leave as resolved by council. Consequently, the situation at the university has been highly tense and does not conduce for the discharge of normal functions of the university by all concerned," Magwaliba reportedly wrote in a letter to another councillor. Magwaliba said that the chairperson of the university council Buzwani Mathobi should have notified Nyagura about his suspension. This came amid reports that former minister of higher and tertiary education, science and technology development deputy minister Dr Godfrey Gadwana was threatened into silence after "raising red flags" over the "fake" PhD two months after it was awarded. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, documents in its possession showed that the ex-deputy minister had written to the then higher education minister, Dr Olivia Muchena, seeking clarity over the awarding of the degree. In a letter dated September 29, 2014, Dr Gadwana noted that obtaining a PhD followed an established process with a clear paper trail, said the report.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  