Cameron Bancroft (left) and Steve Smith (Gallo). Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former ANC MP Jennifer Ferguson says she feels "empathy" towards SAFA boss Danny Jordaan following the charge against him, President Emmerson Mnangagwa has been advised to charge Mugabe or allow him to participate in political activities and Meghan Markle's father will be walking her down the aisle. Here are some of our top stories for the day: NPA formally serves Zuma with summonsFormer president Jacob Zuma's lawyer Micheal Hulley has confirmed to News24 that he has received a summons for his client to appear in the Durban High Court on April 6. Schools close early in Hermanus as tense stand-off with protesters continuesThe situation in the coastal town of Hermanus remains tense as groups of protesters are still in a stand-off with police.I have empathy for Jordaan - Jennifer Ferguson on rape allegation She's laid a complaint of rape against him, but former ANC MP and singer Jennifer Ferguson says she feels nothing but "empathy" towards South African Football Association boss Danny Jordaan. Smith braced for make-or-break captaincy week Embattled Steve Smith is facing a career-defining week which is likely to see him deposed as Australia captain. 27 of the best Oz ball-tampering memes and jokes! It's been dubbed as one of the 'darkest days in Australia cricket history', but that didn't stop several quick-thinking individuals from having a bit of a laugh. Because of the "leadership group" the entire team will go through all this. Who would have thought Australia (most world cup winning team) will go down to this level #ShameOnYou #SteveSmith #bancroft #AUSvsSA #SandpaperGate #CricketAustralia #balltampering #shameful #Disgraceful pic.twitter.com/oeinLTB1aL  Public Protector shares 17 boxes of files with state capture inquiry Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has shared 17 boxes of documents, emanating from her state capture commission investigation, with Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, as he prepares for the upcoming judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. Coligny key witness heard child screaming: 'Mommy please help, I'm dying' - News24The two farm workers accused of killing 16-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu went on an in loco inspection in Coligny. WATCH: The 26-year-old female farmer shattering stereotypes Lerato Senakhomo received 500 hectares of land from the government and is now rearing goats, sheep and growing vegetables in Nigel, in the east of Gauteng.  Meghan Markle’s father will be there to walk her down the aisle - reports Following months of speculation, an insider has confirmed to Daily Mail that the 73-year-old Tom Markle will, in fact, be walking his daughter down the aisle at the St George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle in May. 'Allow Mugabe to take part in politics,' Mnangagwa advised Political commentators say President Emmerson Mnangagwa should charge the ex-president or allow him to participate in political activities like any ordinary Zimbabwean. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  