Thandi Setokoe As part of his future plans Xolisa Menemene wants to expand to buy more equipment to do mammogram tests. Photos:SUPPLIED Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories AFTER opening his first X-ray services in Ziyabuya Shopping Centre at KwaDwesi in 2016, Xolisa Menemene vowed to make it his mission to continue developing more practices in the Eastern Cape. This came to pass when he opened his second practice in King William’s Town last year. The Port Elizabeth-born diagnostic radiographer has now recently opened yet another practice in Mlazi, KwaZulu-Natal. “I’ve been hard at work preparing for this new milestone since November last year and finally the hard work has all paid off,” Menemene said. He described how he had to quit his job at Nompumelelo Hospital in Peddie close to two years ago in order to fund his first practice. “It was a tough decision to make because I had just lost my mother and I was the breadwinner at home, so, I also had the huge responsibility of being a guardian to my younger brother. He said in as much as he received funding from the Small Enterprise Finance Agency, he also had to contribute money from his own pocket. Following his studies of the X-ray market in the townships, Menemene said it was clear that there was a problem in the process involving medical practitioners and referrals of X-ray services. “Some residents have to travel relatively long distances to get to X-ray services because, more often than not, patients are referred to the urban areas and that can be very costly. “That is why I decided to locate my practices in the townships to make it more accessible and affordable.” The radiographer plans to be based in KZN for the next three months to ensure the smooth operation of his newly opened business and thereafter return to Port Elizabeth. “I have left a very reliable team back home, so, I know everything is in good hands.” He further added that he continues building relationships with other medical practitioners within the province which has proved to be very fruitful. “Doctors have realised the efficiency of my practices and they continue referring some of their patients to my practices.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  