Fikile Mbalula (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Vicki Momberg, whose racist rant at a black police officer was caught on camera, believes that the k-word is not offensive, a bank has asked the South Gauteng High Court to urgently ground a Gupta aircraft and the High Court in Pretoria dismissed an urgent court appeal to interdict the return of the controversial film, Inxeba (The Wound), to cinemas. Have a look at some of our top stories for the day: Hawks serve 3 ex-SARS executives with court summonses The Hawks and the National Prosecuting Authority are reviving the mainly discredited SARS "rogue unit" allegations by criminally charging some of the unit’s former members. Vicki Momberg thinks k-word not offensive, 'it's just a swear word' - court hears Vicki Momberg, the former real estate agent whose racist rant at a black police officer was caught on camera, believes that the k-word is not offensive, the Randburg Magistrate's Court heard on Friday. Allister Coetzee named Canon Eagles coach Former Springbok coach Allister Coetzee has been confirmed as the new head coach of the Canon Eagles. SARS appoints debt collectors to recover R16.6bn SARS is pulling out all the stops to collect revenue by appointing debt collectors to recover R16.6bn owed to it. Court hears application to ground Gupta plane A Canadian export and import bank has asked the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg to urgently ground a Gupta aircraft, after it disappeared off the radar. PTA High Court dismisses urgent appeal to stop screening of Inxeba The High Court in Pretoria dismissed an urgent late-night court appeal on Thursday by the National House of Traditional Leaders to interdict the return of the controversial film Inxeba (The Wound) to cinemas on Friday. PE fans print out SBW masks to taunt Warner There may be a cease fire on the field, but South African fans aren't planning to take it easy on Australian opener David Warner. Jordaan to be re-elected in mock SAFA election Investigations into "State Capture" in South Africa is now commendably in full swing, but when it comes to what might be termed "Soccer Capture" there is scant indication that the issue of eliminating situations where personal interests overtake those of an organisation, has not as much as got off the ground. Fikile Mbalula resigns as ANC MP Former police minister Fikile Mbalula is the latest ANC Member of Parliament to step down. ‘Not only polony’ plus other don’t-miss Listeriosis stories Since Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi announced on 4 March that the recent Listeriosis outbreak in South African was linked to the Enterprise food facility in Polokwane, there have been a lot of questions, doubt and panic. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  