Former president Jacob Zuma. (Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Hawks probe Zuma for 'R1m bribe' Former president Jacob Zuma is being investigated by the Hawks for allegedly accepting a R1m cash bribe from a Western Cape abalone dealer in exchange for keeping Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Minister Senzeni Zokwana in his Cabinet. Read more ANC still stuck on Zuma's fate Former ANC president Jacob Zuma took his seat at the table of the party's powerful national executive committee (NEC) this weekend, the first time since his recall. Read more Rape case opened against Danny Jordaan Almost five months after Jennifer Ferguson publicly accused soccer boss Danny Jordaan of sexually assaulting her in a hotel in Port Elizabeth 24 years ago, she has laid a charge of rape against him. Read more The DA's race and diversity fight hots up The great race issue in the DA has again taken centre stage after some members questioned whether the concept of diversity is being used to smuggle in rigid racial categories. Read more Dear IRR, racism is real This might sound a little weird, but we are all allowed a dose of waywardness from time to time: whenever I’m feeling too upbeat and buoyant, I go to the reader comments at the bottom of online stories to bring my mood down a notch. Read the column The price of privilege is obliviousness They say the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and so it was with businesswoman Magda Wierzycka this week. Read more South Africans love to Netflix and chill America’s online paid-for streaming service Netflix, which launched in 2007, might just be the best thing to happen to movies and television in a decade. Read more CITY PRESS: The hot beats of Zoocci Coke Dope We try to keep our ear to the ground for new stompers and, as of late, a few have been released with a certain name attached: Zoocci Coke Dope. Read more KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  