Khatija Nxedlana PHOTO: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - A Roodepoort family is desperately seeking information on their missing three-year-old child. Liyaqat (Lee) Akeem Mentoor was last seen on Friday, 16 March outside his grandmother's house on Bottlebrush Street in Roodekrans. Family spokesperson Estelle Delport told YOU that Lee's mother’s boyfriend was meant to drop him off at his grandmother’s house around 5pm on Friday, but the boyfriend dropped him off earlier in the afternoon and no one was home at the time. It's alleged an unknown woman arrived in a VW Polo and introduced herself as a family member, saying she was on her way to Westgate to fetch the grandmother from the mall. The boyfriend then handed Lee over to her. "How do you in your right mind hand over a child to somebody that you’ve never met in your life, someone who tells you they're family and you don't confirm with the family or with your girlfriend, who's the mother of the child?" Estelle said. "That’s unacceptable." Estelle says the family has reported the matter at the Roodepoort police station. A missing persons report has also been registered with The Pink Ladies organisation and Missing Children SA. "We're standing together, we want him back," Estelle said. "If anybody has seen him, if anyone knows anything, all we want is Lee back, he's three years old, we just want to know where he is, is he clothed? "Is he eating? Is he crying for his mom? Where is he?" Lee was last seen wearing a red, long-sleeved t-shirt, black tracksuit pants, black boots with white soles and a grey jacket.  Anyone with information is urged to contact JHB West FCS Unit Standby number 060 502 0695 or Captain J Pretorius on 082 447 3984. Alternatively, you can also contact Pink Ladies on 072 214 7439 or 083 378 4882 or 072 620 7704.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  