Robert Mugabe. (Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – A Zimbabwean ex-minister has reportedly rejected ex-president Robert Mugabe's invitation to join a newly formed political outfit which is believed to be enjoying the nonagenarian's support. According to Daily News, ex-state security minister Didymus Mutasa said he rejected joining the New Patriotic Front (NPF) party, adding that he would rather remain in retirement than join a "tribalistic" party. Mutasa described the NPF as the former ruler's project, saying that it was not different from the ruling Zanu-PF party. Mutasa said this after meeting the NPF founder, retired brigadier-general Ambrose Mutinhiri at his home in Harare. Mutinhiri resigned from parliament last month, citing the military intervention that pressured Mugabe into stepping down in November as his reason for cutting ties with Zanu-PF. The development was said to have unsettled Zanu-PF, which accused Mugabe of trying to destabilise the ruling party, and warned he could face the loss of his farms and even his pension benefits. "It is true that I met Mutinhiri, but I am not their member, I am there for the people to consult. I meet everyone from Tendai Biti to Nelson Chamisa but that does not mean I will be joining them. I think there is no big difference between the two parties – Zanu-PF and NPF. The party is tribalistic. This is a party that is looking at a particular region and not the whole country," Mutasa was quoted as saying. Mutasa's remarks were, however, rejected by the new party's spokesperson Jealousy Mawarire, who said that the party was "building a national platform not a tribal citadel". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  