Fever Reporter PHOTO: SuppliedAt the breakfast are (from left) Tony Barrett from Activ8 Capital Management; Ziggie Smit, the Neema marketing administrator; Keith Coats, guest speaker from Tomorrow Today Global; Jenny Anderson, a founding member of Neema; and Musa Ngidi, principal of Ukusakwabasha Primary School in Kwa-Nuyswa. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE Neema Foundation held a business breakfast on February 23 at Kloof Country Club to create awareness of its successful “Gateway into Reading” programme. Neema strives to bring hope through education and focuses on teaching the reading of English, as without this, learning in any other area is limited. The Gateway into Reading programme is especially effective with second-language pupils in disadvantaged areas. Teachers in rural schools are also trained in the skills needed to equip pupils to read efficiently using phonic structures. Ukusakwabasha Primary School in KwaNuyswa has benefited hugely from Neema’s pilot scheme at the school and the results are phenomenal, with pupils now reading English confidently and with meaning. According to Musa Ngidi, the principal at Ukusakwabasha, the programme has made a remarkable difference in the lives of the pupils and teachers. He expressed his gratitude for all the assistance his school has received from the Neema Foundation. Keith Coats, a world-renowned leadership expert from Tomorrow Today Global, enlightened guests with a presentation titled “Leading in a Changing World” and he referred to the changes that are necessary in the world of business and education in response to a global context of change, complexity and uncertainty. Each guest received a copy of the book Leading in a Changing World, written by Coats and his business partner Graham Codrington. The books were kindly sponsored by Tony Barrett from Activ8 Capital Management. To make a financial contribution or learn more about becoming involved in the Neema Foundation, contact marketing administrator Ziggie Smit at 083 415 2466 or visit the website www.neemafoundation.co.za or follow it on Facebook. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  