Jenna Etheridge Afrikaans musician Steve Hofmeyr (Gallo Images, Netwerk24, Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Controversial Afrikaans singer Steve Hofmeyr has vowed that the "show will go on", after the George Municipality withdrew permission for him to lease out the local hall for his concert next week. He confirmed to News24 on Thursday that he was consulting lawyers and that the municipality would have to explain their actions. "The George town council first gives permission and then takes it away," he said. "That show will carry on. At the same venue. We are pursuing litigation." He said "being gagged by liberals" was "nothing new" for him. He maintained his concerts were musical and had nothing to do with politics. The show, which was part of his national 'Skree' album launch tour, was scheduled to take place next Thursday evening (March 22). It is understood that all 500 or so tickets had been bought, with many business clients already having booked platters for the event. Funds for school Hofmeyr said the show was meant to be raising funds for a local school. Three shows were still booked for Bloemfontein, Free State and Brits later this month. Michelle Bruwer, who assisted with Hofmeyr's bookings, could only confirm they would not cancel the George show, after receiving notice from the municipality by email. She said she would comment further after a lawyer had been consulted. On Thursday morning, the municipality said it had the right to cancel the leasing of any municipal facility, in terms of official policy, by giving 48 hours prior written notice. "In this instance, this right has been applied as the proposed event cannot be endorsed," municipality spokesperson Chantel Edwards-Klose told News24. No reason was given for why the event could not be endorsed. The municipality declined to answer whether there were guidelines or set criteria that stipulated what events were allowed at a municipal venue. The ANC in the Western Cape had on Wednesday called on the municipality to immediately cancel the concert and "disassociate" itself from Hofmeyr in the way that other corporate sponsors had. After hearing about the municipality's response on Thursday, ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said they felt vindicated. "We are grateful that the municipality has listened to the voice of reason to withdraw their decision, which was after all, very insensitive," he said, referring to black and coloured constituencies which felt alienated. "More must be done to build a truly non-racial character that Madiba had worked for and that our new President [Cyril] Ramaphosa is building." Old flag To add to Hofmeyr's woes, activist Johan Pienaar was granted an interim protection order against the artist earlier this week to prevent him from harassing, disturbing and damaging his art installation, which includes the old South African flag. The order, granted by the Stellenbosch Magistrate's Court, prevented Hofmeyr from contacting Pienaar directly or indirectly. It also prevented him from inciting violence against him or threatening Pienaar on any social platform. READ: Old SA flag activist gets protection order against controversial singer Steve Hofmeyr Pienaar had laid down the flag on a sidewalk in Stellenbosch last week, with names of some of the most prominent apartheid architects and what he called enablers written on it, News24 previously reported. While a violinist played "Die Vlaglied" (The Flag Song), he invited attendees of the US Woordfees to walk over the flag. Hofmeyr's name was also on the flag. Hofmeyr tweeted that he would offer a R1 500 reward to anyone who removed the flag from the sidewalk in Stellenbosch, while Freedom Front Plus leader Corné Mulder suggested that Pienaar get himself security, following his "attention-seeking stunts". A man approached Pienaar and gave him a piece of paper with the words "This flag is now expropriated without compensation" on it, before grabbing the flag and running away. Subsequent tweets by Hofmeyr included, "Dankie almal. Die vlag is myne. Sal hom more gaan haal" (Thank you everyone. The flag is mine. Will go fetch it tomorrow). In addition, he tweeted, "In Stellenbosch. Op soek na sypaadjiekuns. Wil dit donner. #AboutThatFlag #Woordfees #oranjeblanjeblou" (In Stellenbosch. Looking for pavement art. Want to bash it up. #AboutThatFlag #Woordfees #oranjeblanjeblou) Pienaar laid charges of conspiracy to commit theft and intimidation against Hofmeyr. Hofmeyr was notified that he should tell the court on April 25 why a final protection order should not be issued. He said on Thursday that he could not comment on the case. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  