Reporter NELSON Mandela Bay Municipality (NMBM) has invited Eastern Cape artists to compete for a chance to design the coveted trophies for the winners of the first-ever Ironman 70.3 World Championship hosted by an African country in September this year. Thousands of triathletes from across the world will be flocking to the Bay to compete on September 1 and 2 for the opportunity to raise those trophies after completing a gruelling swim, cycle and running course. NMBM Member of the Mayoral Committee for Sport, Recreation, Arts and Culture Siyasanga Sijadu said the winner of this competition would be catapulted into the international limelight as the cream of the Ironman triathlon would be competing on the day. “We are inviting artists to submit concept designs of the winning male and female trophies before or on March 16 (this Friday). “Since we are only in the first round of submissions, artists are not expected to present final artworks and their creations can be in any format. “It goes without saying that we would like to see outstanding and innovative designs as the trophies are an integral part of the overall experience of the athletes. “It is therefore crucial that our designs stand out and improve on what other host cities had on their winning podia,” Sijadu said. The first round of selections will take place at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan (NMM) Art Museum on Tuesday March 20. Entry forms will be available from the NMM Art Museum, the Sports, Recreation, Arts and Culture buildings in St George’s Park and at local galleries. They will also be available to download from the NMM Art Museum and NMBM websites. The concept proposals must not exceed a space of 2m x 2m when fully installed. From these proposals, 10 concept trophies will be selected to take part in the next stage of the competition. The top 10 presentations will be displayed at the Standard Bank Ironman African Championship in April when the public will be able to vote for their favourite design at the exhibition. The winner will be selected at the end of April and receive the prize money of R10 000. Technical support will be provided for the final production of the two awards to be presented to the top male and female athletes. Closing date for submissions is Friday March 16 and all submissions must be presented on this date to the NMM Art Museum between 9:00 and 17:00. Artists requiring more information can contact Emma O’Brien on 041 506 2000 or Uthando Baduza at 041 506 2017 or email the NMM Art Museum at artmuseum@mandelametro.gov.za. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  