Allister Coetzee (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Cape Town - Blood presumably belonging to murdered Constantia woman has been found in the home that she shared with her husband, a former army brigadier who quit Zimbabwe's ruling party to protest the removal of former leader Robert Mugabe has formed a new political party, and BMW SA has revealed the price of its new M5. No polony: Everything we know so far about the listeriosis outbreak Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi has announced that government has narrowed down the sources of the deadly listeriosis outbreak in South Africa. Listeriosis: 'It was for the children's lunches, now I have to throw it away' Telling his 6-year-old daughter that she would have to have peanut butter and jam, instead of polony and viennas on Monday morning, wasn't easy for a 45-year-old father. Food Lover's Market group recalls products after listeriosis announcement The Food Lover's Market group says it has initiated an immediate nationwide recall of all Enterprise and Rainbow Chicken processed meats, following the announcement on the source of the deadly listeriosis outbreak. Constantia murder: Blood found in home and car of victim's husband Blood presumably belonging to murdered Constantia woman Gill Packham, was found in the home that she shared with her husband Rob Packham, who is now accused of her murder, the Wynberg Magistrate's Court has heard. Coetzee to get Japan job despite explosive letter It is believed that Allister Coetzee’s explosive letter to the SA Rugby top brass almost cost him his job in Japan. In January, Coetzee sent a 19-page document via his legal representatives to SA Rugby CEO Jurie Roux in a bid to show that almost all of the problems during his two-year tenure were due to external factors. Cape Town winning Day Zero battle, but City warns residents to keep saving The City of Cape Town has repeated its call to locals to continue to save drinking water, even though Day Zero has been pushed back again – this time from July 9 to July 15. PICS: Rita Moreno proves her 1962 Oscar-winning outfit is timeless Oscar-winning actress Rita Moreno attended this year’s Oscars in the same dress she wore to the Academy Awards in 1962.  Rita Moreno. (Photo: Getty Images) New party forms in Zimbabwe with Mugabe's backing A former army brigadier who quit Zimbabwe's ruling party to protest the removal of former leader Robert Mugabe has formed a new political party. This is how much the new BMW M5 will cost in SA BMW South Africa has loaded its new M5 onto the automaker's configurator system and simultaneously revealed the price. WATCH: All you need to know about the new all-wheel drive BMW M5. A post shared by  Wheels24 (@wheels24_sa) on Aug 22, 2017 at 4:56am PDT  Warner restrained after alleged De Kock barb about wife The reason for the first Test bust-up between Australian opener David Warner and Proteas 'keeper Quinton de Kock is reported to be due to personal barbs the SA star made regarding Warner's wife, according to the cricket.com.au website.  Lyon set for fine after AB 'ball dropping' incident Australian off-spinner Nathan Lyon is set to be sanctioned by the ICC for dropping the ball next to AB de Villiers after the Proteas batsman was run out on Day 4 of the first Test in Durban on Sunday. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  