Lizeka Tandwa Siyabonga Langelihle Ngcobo (21), whose body was found in a burnt Taxify car. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – The family of murdered Taxify driver Siyabonga Ngcobo is dissatisfied with the police investigation into his killing, Gauteng roads and transport MEC Ismail Vadi said on Wednesday. Vadi and community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane visited the family in Centurion, where they discussed the investigation. ALSO READ: 'We cannot have his spirit roaming around Pretoria' - murdered Taxify driver's aunt Speaking to the media shortly after the meeting, Vadi said police needed to step up their work in this case. "We are shocked that police have not yet spoken to the family... We certainly see the need for them to step up the work. A very senior level of detectives should be appointed." An emotional Nkosi-Malobane, who oversees the work of the police in the province, admitted that improvements needed to be made by the police. She said the family had obtained information which they believed would assist the police in solving the case. However, no one from the police force had come to speak to them. "There are witnesses that are willing to come forward. The family is not happy that those people have not been interviewed by the police." She added that she would instruct the investigating officer to visit the family and take statements. 'You can run, but you can't hide' Both MECs were emotional during the media briefing, with Nkosi-Malobane shedding tears as she spoke about Ngcobo, and Vadi choking as he delivered his statement. "When you hear the feelings and sentiments of the family, you yourself want to be comforted," Vadi said. Visibly angry at one stage, Nkosi-Malobane promised to bring those responsible for the murder to book.  Nkosi-Malobane explained how Ngcobo, who was putting himself through school as a Taxify driver, showed signs of being a productive member of society. "Now these bastards have taken his life the way they did. We will make sure that whoever is behind this gruesome murder will be arrested or found, dead or alive. You can run, but you can't hide," she said. Ngcobo's charred remains were found in the boot of a car in Pretoria last week. The family is waiting for the police to release his remains following DNA testing. His funeral will be held at his home in Inanda, in KwaZulu-Natal, next week Sunday, Nkosi-Malobane said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  