PICS: SA, Zim 'are joined on the hip… we'll find ways to grow our economies', says Ramaphosa Harare – President Cyril Ramaphosa met with his Zimbabwean counterpart Emmerson Mnangagwa in Harare over the weekend and the two leaders reviewed bilateral relations between the two countries. According to the state-owned Sunday Mail newspaper, Ramaphosa, who spoke to journalists after the meeting, said that the courtesy call on Mnangagwa had provided an opportunity to discuss economic matters. For more on this story click here 'Go to the courts if you believe Mnangagwa is illegitimate,' Mugabe told Harare – Former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe has reportedly been urged to approach the courts of law "if he believes President Emmerson Mnangagwa's administration" is not legitimate. This came after Mugabe told journalists in Harare last week that the Mnangagwa led government lacked constitutional legitimacy. Mugabe described his departure from office in November as a "coup d'etat". Read more on this story here Zim's economic recovery is an urgent priority, says UN as it backs 'free, fair, credible' polls in July Harare - The United Nations has voiced its support for a plan to hold elections in Zimbabwe in July. The elections, which have not yet received a specific date, will be the first big test for President Emmerson Mnangagwa who became Zimbabwe's president in November after the military ousted Robert Mugabe, 93, who ruled for 37 years. A statement by the UN Development Programme administrator Achim Steiner on Sunday said the election is a key aspect of the country's future. For more on this story click here Rwandan minister speaks on African governance Kigali – African ways of governance should be considered when the work of governments on the continent is evaluated, Rwandan foreign minister Louise Mushikiwabo has said. Mushikiwabo was speaking last week at an event to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the establishment of the African Peer Review Mechanism. The APRM was the brainchild of the likes of president Thabo Mbeki and former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo as a way to find African solutions to African problems. Read more on this story here Zimbabwe's president threatens to prosecute forex culprits Harare - Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Monday named hundreds of mines, Chinese businesses and individuals who had illegally transferred foreign currency abroad during Robert Mugabe's rule and warned they would be prosecuted. The announcement came after the expiry of a three month amnesty for the return of funds including export proceeds, payments for phantom imports and "funds transferred to foreign banks in cash or under spurious circumstances". Authorities say Zimbabwe lost at least $1.4bn in revenue as a result. Read more on this story here Zim polls: 'Charismatic' lawyer and pastor Nelson Chamisa to challenge military-backed Mnangagwa Harare - Ahead of Zimbabwe's crucial elections this year, the biggest opposition party has selected a charismatic lawyer and pastor to challenge the military-backed president in the first vote without former leader Robert Mugabe in decades. It will be a hard road for 40-year-old Nelson Chamisa, who became head of the MDC-T party this month after the February death from cancer of Morgan Tsvangirai. Chamisa will face President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a former confidant of Mugabe. Mnangagwa, 75, fell out with Mugabe last year amid factional squabbling and was sworn in after a military intervention in November. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  