Kagiso Rabada. (Photo: Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – See a criminal snatching phone out of man's hand at a popular restaurant, many in the ANC have come to see the EFF as the de facto ANC Youth League, writes Max du Preez and Meghan Markle makes her first ever public appearance with her Majesty the Queen. Have a look at some of our top stories for the day: #EskomInquiry: Committee looks to summon Myeni, Guptas and Duduzane Zuma The portfolio committee on public enterprises will resolve to launch a process to subpoena Dudu Myeni, the Gupta brothers and Duduzane Zuma to appear before the Eskom inquiry. Banned Rabada reclaims No 1 spot, AB rises Kagiso
 Rabada's performance in the second Test against Australia in Port 
Elizabeth has seen him rise back to the top of Test cricket's bowling 
rankings. Drought disaster: R6bn in the budget, and more is coming - Mkhize R6bn has been allocated for disaster relief in the budget, and more will come through special disaster funds, says Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Zweli Mkhize. MAX DU PREEZ: Ramaphosa is courting Malema - why it could backfire Is the ANC trying to neutralise the EFF by smothering it in an adoring embrace? Or has the two parties' political approach become so similar that one can't see daylight between them? PICS: Western Cape discovers its own cradle of humankind While Gauteng houses the first discoveries of original fossil hominin material, the Western Cape has become the recent focal point of attention regarding prehistoric humankind as 90 000-year-old fossilised hunter-gatherer footprints have been discovered in a cave along the southern Cape coastline.  Meghan Markle makes angelic first appearance with Queen Elizabeth Prince Harry's bride-to-be Meghan Markle has made her first ever public appearance with Queen Elizabeth II. Estina arrests not due to change in political winds - Hawks head Acting
 Hawks head Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata has pointed out that the 
arrests of people linked to the Estina dairy project did not come as a 
result of a change in the country's political leadership. WATCH: Criminal snatches phone out of man's hand at restaurant Criminals are now targeting outdoor sections of restaurants to steal people's belongings. A customer at RocoMamas - a fast food chain - in Randburg, was a victim in late February.  Nene woos overseas investors, just like Gordhan a year ago before recall Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene is in London together with labour and business as part of a three-leg international roadshow to woo investors and ratings agencies. 'That is fake news': Zimbabweans challenge Mnangagwa over upbeat NYT op-ed President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s upbeat view of Zimbabwe in the New York Times has received mixed reaction at home, with calls for him to repeal harsh laws and give freedom of expression and association to all, including his predecessor Robert Mugabe. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  