The joint portfolio committee that summoned NPA head Shaun Abrahams to Parliament to answer for the sluggish investigation in the Estina/Vrede dairy farm state capture case remains dissatisfied with Abraham's answers, and will call another meeting.  WATCH LIVE: (via SABC)  Jump to
                    bottom The meeting adjourns, with everyone agreeing there is much more work needed to resolve any of the issues raised today. "We will get another date, we will get the two ministers, including the former minister of police, then we'll take this process forward," the committee chairperson concludes.  All MPs present are now wrapping up their thoughts on today's proceedings, and are of the opinion that another joint committee meeting is required to come to any sort of resolution, or take the process forward.  Abrahams now facing another round of questioning by MPs on the committee.  ICYMI: EFF MP Sibonakaliso Mhlongo's heated delivery while addressing NPA head Shaun Abrahams in Parliament. WATCH: Abrahams denies assertions that the NPA is politically captured.  Abrahams: "I did not delay any arrests. I do not make decisions as to who should be arrested, or who should not be arrested. This is part of the misinformation narrative that has been put out there and it is completely incorrect."  Abrahams: "I disagree with the statement that this was a bungled investigation and a delay by the NPA..."  Abrahams says he cannot divulge "critical information" in public or in Parliament until the investigation has run its course, when MPs argue that Abrahams has not satisfactorily answered their questions.  Abrahams: "I implore on everybody, allow the investigative processes to take place."  Abrahams: I have limited powers in deciding on which cases should be prosecuted.  "Spare us the lecture," Abrahams is told by the committee chairperson. Abrahams was responding to the accusations of "selective prosecution". Another MP addresses the chairperson and says Abrahams needs to remember that he is now in Parliament, and he is not at the NPA, where he may be the head.  Abrahams implies that purported leaks are from people who seek to be relevant.  Abrahams: "Regrettably I can't give specifics" of investigation.  Abrahams now takes the opportunity to respond: "Let me start by dispelling the misperception in terms of the briefing that I made... I certainly had no intention, or for perception to be created, that I've thrown, the proverbial throwing of General Matakata under the bus." "That certainly was not the intention at all. It was merely a report that I have been given about historical facts... I wanted to give a rendition of that." "We have a very great working relationship... I truly value the relationship that we have."  Matakata, in reference to working with the NPA: "I think we are both clear about our mandates and therefore the working relationship that needs to exist between the two entities." Matakata insists she is not at loggerheads with the NDPP.  MPs have now completed their round of questioning, and Matakata takes the opportunity to respond to all the issues have been raised first. Answering issues related directly to the Hawks.  Questioning resumes after the short tea break.  Four more MPs still have to direct their questions to Abrahams and Matakata, but the portfolio chairperson calls for a 10-minute tea break. Proceedings will resume after the short break.  Mhlongo: "Honourable chairperson, I hope you are not trying to intimidate me..."  Another EFF MP, Sibonakaliso Mhlongo, takes a swipe at Mosebenzi Zwane who is still a member of Parliament, and "as a member of Parliament we are compelled to address him as honourable member... but what is honourable in a dishonourable man?"  An EFF MP accuses Shaun Abrahams and the NPA of "selective prosecuting". Says the NPA moved swiftly in other matters, like prosecuting former state prosecutor Glynnis Breytenbach. Breytenbach, a DA MP now sitting on this very same joint portfolio committee, has since been acquitted of all charges.  MP to Abrahams: "People get arrested for being suspects all the time, while the investigation is ongoing...I'm not entirely satisfied with this notion around special cases."  DA MP Glynnis Breytenbach says it was obvious that the Guptas, Jacob Zuma and his son Duduzane are "special cases" and "flight risks". "The Guptas, and at least Duduzane Zuma, are widely known to have assets abroad - considerable assets abroad - homes abroad, access to private aircraft, they travel extensively, they might, on their own admission, have more than one passport..." "You would impose serious restrictions on their ability to travel and to move..." "It's impossible that these people could not have been considered flight risks" but nothing was done to limit their ability to leave the country.  Members of Parliament sitting on the joint portfolio committee are still framing their questions to Abrahams and Matakata based on their opening statements.  Matakata concludes and is now facing questions, along with Abrahams, from the Parliamentary committee.  #Matakata : The concerns that the suspects may leave the country were raised in the meeting we had with the NPA as the HAWKS.  #StateCapture Matakata says she did not throw Abrahams under the bus.  Hawks acting head Yolisa Matakata says there isn't a stand off between her and NDPP Shaun Abrahams and she didn't throw him under the bus with her comments on Estina investigation @TeamNews24 #Matakata : We are both mandated by the Act to work with other institutions so that we can fight crime.  #StateCapture Hawks acting head Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata is now responding.  #Matakata : The work has been going on even after the docket was submitted to the NPA.  #StateCapture #Abrahams : We regard the DPCI as our partner in fighting serious crime in South Africa and we look forward in working with them. #StateCapture Abrahams says it is "regrettable" that the issues between the NPA and the Hawks have now found their way to a public forum.  "It is regrettable that these issues found its way to a public forum," say NDPP Shaun Abrahams about Estina matter @TeamNews24 Abrahams on raid at Gupta compound in Saxonwold: "All those arrested appeared in court and were granted bail. The matter has now been postponed to August 2018, for the finalisation of the investigation."  Jump to
                top