THE Amanzimtoti Child and Family Welfare Society had their graduation ceremony for the Domestic Workers Employment Programme on Friday, March 9, which was funded by the National Lottery Council. This eight-module programme that took place every second week which started on April 1, 2017 was set to empower women and give them skills to be able to secure employment. Manager at the Amanzimtoti Child and Family Welfare Society Poovandri Naidoo said: “Besides giving the people skills to secure employment we want the community to be the best caregiver they can be at home with their families.” Naidoo continued to share that the graduates were taught skills to help them be the best for employment, some of the skills that are taught during the course are domestic skills and hygiene, reception and office management, eco-gardening, baby care, cooking and baking, primary health care and basic first aid skills. “There are eight modules in total and once they complete them they are awarded a certificate of attendance. We are very fortunate to have this course funded by the NLC as so many of our graduates have secured employment because of the basic skills they were taught here.” One of the graduates of the Domestic Workers Employment Programme, Ladyfair Mkhize said: “We have been equipped professionally in the course, we can now bake and even cook for catering companies to generate income. I can confidently say I am the best mother I can be to my children now, I was taught how to clean a house properly and to provide a warm home not only for my employer but for my family also.” The course has seen more than 200 graduates with some being able to secure employment even before the course came to completion. Naidoo prides herself on all the graduate they have seen and is most proud of the eco-gardening course. “The gardening course has done so well, it is such a great skill to pick up. We have this watering system where we fill one two-litre bottle and it spreads throughout one diameter and waters the plantation. Naidoo said: “We not only want to make our graduates employable but be able to generate more income in their workplaces with the different skill they have acquired here. The course was facilitated by a number of qualified members and the whole programme was funded by the National Lottery Council.