Byrone Athman Students holding up traffic as they carry their protest throughout the UKZN campus.PHOTO: byrone athman Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories WHAT began as a peaceful protest throughout the University of Kwa-Zulu Natal (UKZN) campus on Thursday quickly became violent on Monday as protesting students rampaged the Pietermaritzburg campus throwing stones at passing cars and disturbing classes throughout the day. The crowd of students protesting over funding and accommodation were met with rubber bullets fired by the police to get the crowd to disperse. According to Pietermaritzburg police spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese, students first tried to vandalise university property before the police saw to it that they dispersed. “Once the police stopped them they pretended like they were dispersing until they got together again outside the university and started to block roads and stone vehicles,” said Ngobese. He said that police were then able to force the students to disperse again but that no arrests have been made thus far. Normah Zondo, acting executive director for corporate communications at UKZN, said they were aware that groups of students were disrupting lectures on the Pietermaritzburg UKZN campus and that additional security had been made available to the campus in order to contain protesting action and to ensure that the academic programme was able to continue. “The students are citing matters ranging from accommodation issues, academic exclusions, exam dates and funding. University management is engaging with student leadership to resolve matter,” said Zondo. Many students have said that they are afraid to return to campus in fear of being hurt during all the protests. Third year student Jauhar Khan, said that he was forcibly removed from his class after rampaging students threatened to turn to violence if the class did not leave the lecture room. The SRC did not provide a comment in an unsuccessful attempt to reach the spokesperson. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  