iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Kampala – An air hostess reportedly sustained serious injuries after falling from an Emirates aircraft at the Entebbe International Airport in Kampala, Uganda. According to BBC, the woman was rushed to hospital from the airport after falling from the doorway on Wednesday. "The Boeing 777 had landed shortly before, and was preparing to welcome passengers on board before departing for Dubai," the report said. A Daily Nation report said that the exact cause of the incident was not immediately clear, although some witnesses cited possible suicide. "She had been seen holding what looked like a glass bottle under her chin before she made the fall. Other witnesses said they had seen her in a verbal exchange with colleagues as they boarded the plane," the report said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. "Her knees were shattered and body cut with broken glass from a bottle she jumped with," a witness at the airport was quoted as saying. A Ugandan civil aviation authority press statement said that the woman was still alive and investigations into the incident were under way. The statement read: "... a female member of the cabin crew appeared to have opened the emergency door and unfortunately fell off...,". It did not, however, explain how and why. An Emirates spokesperson confirmed the incident, said the Khaleej Times, which quoted him as saying: "We can confirm that a member of our cabin crew unfortunately fell off from an open door while preparing the aircraft for boarding on flight EK729 from Entebbe on 14 March. The injured crew member was brought to the nearest hospital. We are providing all possible support and care for the affected crew, and will extend our full co-operation to the authorities in their investigation." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  