Alpha Conde (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Conakry - Guinean President Alpha Conde will carry out a "major cabinet reshuffle", his office said on Thursday, following weeks of strikes and demonstrations in the country after disputed local elections. Conde will install ministers "who listen to the people," a statement said. It was released after Conde was booed by hundreds of angry women at a ceremony to mark International Women's Day, according to an AFP correspondent. Political unrest erupted in early February when Conde's ruling party won the first local elections to be held since 2005, in results disputed by the main opposition party. Around 12 people have died in the unrest, some of whom were shot dead by police. The statement did not say when the reshuffle would happen. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. "I will spend the next days listening to the silent majority, meeting magistrates, doctors, drivers, women and youths," it quoted Conde as saying. Women gathered on Thursday outside the Palace of the People in the capital Conakry, fearful that strikes which have closed schools will harm their children's education. "Do not kill our children by making them ignorant," and "since you are incapable, give up," the women chanted. Teachers have been pushing for wage increases but negotiations are at a standstill. It was "not with a happy heart" that Conde saw schools closing, the Guinean presidency said, adding that he wanted to "highlight progress made by women" on March 8. On Wednesday thousands of women dressed in white, the local colour of mourning, took part in a three-kilometre march in protest at the violent crackdown on political demonstrations. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  