Mxolisi Mngadi (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 36-year-old pregnant mother and her three children, aged between 2 to 11, died when they were struck by lightning in their one-roomed home on Wednesday night, KwaZulu-Natal police said. The incident happened at about 19:30 in Ingwavuma, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said on Friday. "Ingwavuma police have opened an inquest docket," he said. IFP leader in the KwaZulu-Natal legislature Blessed Gwala on Friday said the rollout of lightning conductors was crucial for the protection of rural communities which are vulnerable to extreme weather across the province. "This incident follows another incident where it had been reported that four Grade 12 classrooms at Estcourt Secondary School were badly damaged when lightning struck the building earlier this month. The lightning strike led to a fire that burnt chairs, tables, books and test scripts of about 180 Grade 12 pupils in the classrooms," he said. The IFP called for mass awareness campaigns to ensure that people, including young children, are armed with information about how to cope with the increasing problems caused by natural disasters. Possible flooding Gwala said such campaigns should encourage people to buy lighting conductors instead of waiting for government to help them. "We remind people that the simple rule is that when you see lightning or hear thunder, no matter how far away, take shelter in a substantial building – one with electrical wiring and plumbing – or in a vehicle," said Gwala. The province's MEC for cooperative governance and traditional affairs Nomusa Dube-Ncube has called upon residents of the province to be cautious as inclement weather conditions persist. "Our reports indicate that the heavy rains that have hit the midlands, northern and eastern parts of the province can possibly lead to localised flooding in low-lying areas. We, therefore, urge our communities to be cautious and not cross low-lying bridges," she said. Dube-Ncube warned motorists to exercise extreme caution as the roads were slippery. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  