President Cyril Ramaphosa will is set to appear before the National Assembly for his first oral question and answer session since being elected as the head of state. Jump to
                    bottom "If we do not do so, this problem that has stayed with us, as a nation for hundred years, when the dispossession of land started in the country, and reached its zenith point in 1912 when the ANC was formed, will implode in our hands."This is our historic task we have as South Africans to address this problem, once and for all."Expropriation without compensation is one of the mechanisms government will use to achieve land reform. Government will undertake broad consultation process..."No details," shouts DA MP Geordin Hill-Lewis. Holomisa asks if it is time to reconfigure the structure of NEDLAC. "There are discussions taking place within the labour component of NEDLAC," Ramaphosa answers."Those who are part of that component, should engage in discussions themselves, without any interference from any quarter including government."As it is now, we have three federations, and those discussions could lead to something."Once an agreement is reached between the parties, as government they will be prepared to work with whoever is represented on the council. Ramaphosa answers: "We stand for anything that advances the interests of South Africa." EFF MPs groan at the generic answer.Ramaphosa continues, says the NDP is a living document."We need to look at it continuously to see what we can take out of the NDP in order to improve the lives of our people." Back to supplementary questions on social compacting, renewal and economic growth. EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu stands up. Shivambu argues that the ANC's 54th national elective conference fundamentally changed the National Development Plan."Why do you keep referring to the NDP? What do you stand for?" he asks. There will be three supplementary questions on the current topic. Thereafter, the next formal question is posed by Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane. Maimane has asked what the full details are of government's plan to expropriate land without compensation, in light of Ramaphosa's State of the Nation Address. Ramaphosa says institutions like NEDLAC (National Economic Development and Labour Council) is good for the solving of problems. It brings partners together and helps find solutions to complex social and economic conflicts."We have been able through NEDLAC to utilize key legislation, but also tackle important problems." Makhubela-Mashele now stands to ask her follow up question. She wants to know how government can assure citizens that there aren't unnecessary conflicts between different social partners in the discussions. Ramaphosa is currently answering the first question posed by ANC MP Lusizo Makhubela-Mashele. The question asked what the government's position was on the relationship between the concept of a social compact and creating drivers of economic recovery. 'What is government's plan for land?' - Ramaphosa to face questions in Parliament President Cyril Ramaphosa is to face some testing questions in 
Parliament on Wednesday during his first quarterly question session 
since being sworn in a month ago. Ramaphosa will tackle six questions from ruling and opposition party MPs in the National Assembly from 15:00 on Wednesday. The
 question paper includes questions on land expropriation without 
compensation, the National Prosecuting Authority and the legal 
costs of former president Jacob Zuma's court engagements. Watch Ramaphosa speak live here  Jump to
                top