Disciplinary proceedings against Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille will soon commence, after De Lille was charged with contravening the federal constitution of the party, amid claims of misconduct. Jump to
                    bottom De Lille's disciplinary hearing set to start After a false start earlier this week, Cape Town executive mayor Patricia de Lille's disciplinary hearing is due to start on Thursday. De Lille was charged with contravening the DA's federal constitution amid claims of misconduct. Her disciplinary hearing got off to a slow start this week with technicalities including how the panel was appointed and how the hearing should be constituted. "We haven't even gotten to the recusal of the panel yet," she said earlier this week. De Lille believes that Sheila Camerer, one of the three panellists, was not "competent or suitable to hear the matter".  WATCH: "My name is being smeared in public, my name needs to be cleared in public" - De Lille ICYMI: De Lille threatens to go to court if DA hearing is not open Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille has threatened to approach the courts if her request for an open hearing is not granted. Her disciplinary hearing got off to a slow start. Technicalities were discussed, including how the panel was appointed and how the hearing should be constituted. "We haven't even gotten to the recusal of the panel yet," she said. It's no secret that De Lille believes Sheila Camerer, one of the three panellists, is not "competent or suitable to hear the matter". Previously, the mayor said Camerer hadn't "practised law in decades and she is a known political opponent". Once that aspect is dealt with, the request for the hearing is to be open.  WATCH: We have a strong case against Patricia de Lille - Selfe ICYMI: WATCH: 'We want her to stay on, for now.' - City of Cape Town ANC on De Lille victory ICYMI: 'I will stop at nothing' - De Lille says she is hell-bent on clearing her name City of Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille says she is resolute, determined and hell-bent on clearing her name ahead of her fight-back against charges levelled against her by the Democratic Alliance. Disciplinary proceedings are expected to commence on Tuesday after she was charged with contravening the federal constitution of the party amid claims of misconduct. "This is about my values, my reputation and integrity. I have worked very hard in this country and have been in politics for more than 45 years. To become a household name has meant I had to prove myself so people know what kind of person I am," she told News24 ahead of one of the biggest battles of her political career. "I am not going to allow anyone, no matter who they are, to now try and take that away from me after I worked so long. I am hell-bent on clearing my name and I will stop at nothing - I will go through battering and bashing and unfairness and lies, but in the end I will emerge victorious because I stand my ground on the basis of principle."  ICYMI: De Lille eager to have allegations tested at her disciplinary hearing The mayor of Cape Town, Patricia de Lille, says her biggest concern ahead of her disciplinary hearing on Tuesday is to ensure that the public understands what the charges against her are about. De Lille has been the focus of several serious allegations and claims, but she survived a motion of no confidence last month. DA Federal Council chairperson James Selfe said the hearing had been set down for four days, and they were hoping they would be able to conclude the matter within that time. De Lille said reports of her being accused of covering up corruption perpetrated by City of Cape Town officials, more particularly the actions of Commissioner for Transport, Melissa Whitehead, were not true. "In fact, the bulk of the charges concern allegations of highly technical transgressions which do not involve me at all, other than the contention that as the 'boss' of the City, I should be held liable."  ICYMI: Frustrated by defiant De Lille, the DA now wants powers to recall deployees The Democratic Alliance wants to change its constitution to include a recall clause that will allow it to remove its public representatives, by passing litigious processes that have plagued their disciplinary processes. The party was exposed for not having any mechanism to remove its public representatives in its continuing tug of war with Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille. De Lille is currently facing a disciplinary inquiry expected to be concluded on March 20. Majority of DA members in her caucus voted for her to go during a motion of no confidence debate, but De Lille survived by one vote with the support of the ANC that made a last minute about turn and withdrew its own motion against her.  ICYMI: City of Cape Town saga - determined De Lille readies herself for DA disciplinary processes Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille says she has received a number of "settlement proposals" from the Democratic Alliance, but that in a bid to clear her name she will go through disciplinary processes. She is expected to announce her legal representative in the matter this week. "The DA has proposed dates for the hearing and I expect to be in a position to respond to their proposed dates once I have finalised the appointment of the counsel who will represent me," De Lille said on Sunday. "In the meantime my lawyers have indicated to the DA's federal legal commission that I expect the disciplinary hearing to be open to the media."  Jump to
                top