Carien du Plessis iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Kigali – African ways of governance should be
considered when the work of governments on the continent is evaluated, Rwandan
foreign minister Louise Mushikiwabo has said. Mushikiwabo was speaking last week at an event to
celebrate the 15th anniversary of the establishment of the African
Peer Review Mechanism. The APRM was the brainchild of the likes of president
Thabo Mbeki and former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo as a way to find
African solutions to African problems. Praising the recent drive started by Kenyan president
Uhuru Kenyatta to revitalise the APRM, which had been flagging until about two
years ago, Mushikiwabo said: "Apart from the traditional indicators of
governance, the APRM should also design particular methodologies to examine the
role of African governance initiatives embedded in our own culture and way of
thinking, and their role in our governance and knowledge, which should also be
shared with other countries." One of the intentions of the APRM is to enable African
governments to share their experiences about good governance, as well as to
help each other find solutions to challenges. Mushikiwabo said it could also look at ways to
innovate governance. She stood in for Rwandan President Paul Kagame, who
returned from India the day before and who was preoccupied with preparing for
the special African Union summit on the continental free trade area this week. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. The APRM is also set to be used to measure progress on
the continent in reaching the AU’s Agenda 2063 goals, as well as the
sustainable development goals of the United Nations, according to a recent
decision by the AU in this regard. “It should be a continental measurement of
the goals we have fixed for ourselves, and the goals that we share with the
rest of the world,” she said. Senior advisor to the APRM secretariat CEO, Melaku
Desta, said African governance principles could be incorporated into the APRM’s
work. He said when the instrument was applied to help prevent conflicts,
something which is currently in the pipeline, traditional justice systems could
be useful. “We have to consider ways of settling disputes,” he said. “This is
the low-hanging fruit that we should harvest. There is some evidence on the
ground that says, ‘yes, there are traditional ways of addressing grievances’,”
he said. Courts themselves are often far away from communities,
and other ways to find justice could be used, he added. The APRM secretariat, the APR Panel of Eminent persons
as well as a number of diplomats and members of civil society involved in the
APRM’s work met for two days this week to discuss improving the methods used by
the APRM to do its work. Currently 37 out of the 54 AU member states are signed
up to the voluntary mechanism, and there were discussions on how to get all the
African countries to join. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  