Mnangagwa's govt 'offering incentives to evicted Zim white farmers in Zambia to return home' – report Harare - President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government is reportedly offering incentives to Zimbabwean white farmers, who shifted their business to Zambia at the height of the controversial land reform programme, to relocate back to the southern African country. Mnangagwa is breaking away from the seizure of thousands of white-owned farms carried out by his predecessor and mentor Robert Mugabe, who resigned in November under military pressure. For more on this story click here 'Horror' as doctor cuts open wrong patient's head – reports Nairobi – A Kenyan doctor has reportedly been suspended after performing a brain surgery on the wrong patient. According to Daily Nation, this was "one of the worst cases of medical malpractice to become public at Kenyatta National Hospital". The report said that two men had been wheeled into the hospital last weekend – one needed a surgery to remove a blood clot in his brain "while the other only required nursing and medication to heal a trauma swelling in his head". Read more on this story here 49 dead in new flare-up of ethnic unrest in DRC's Ituri Bunia - At least 49 people were killed in a fresh outbreak of ethnic violence overnight in the Democratic Republic of Congo's troubled Ituri province, a senior charity official said on Friday. The latests killings were part of a cycle of unrest between the Hema and Lendu communities in the northeastern province, the government told AFP. "We have counted 49 bodies and are still searching for other bodies," said Alfred Ndrabu Buju from international Catholic charity Caritas. Read more on this story here Zim president says ready to release names of 'looters' Harare – President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly said that he will soon release a "long" list of "patriotic Zimbabweans" who complied with his directive to return funds that were siphoned out of the country by individuals and corporations during ex-president Robert Mugabe's reign. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Mnangagwa said that he was going to meet with the reserve bank governor John Mangudya to assess how much had been brought back. He said that he would then compile the list and release the names to the public. Read more on this story here Gunfire near French embassy in Burkina Faso capital - report Ouagadougou - Heavy gunfire was heard on Friday near the French embassy in Ouagadougou, the capital of the Sahel state of Burkina Faso, an AFP reporter said. Witnesses said five armed men got out of a car and opened fire on passersby before heading towards the embassy. For more on this story click here Dozens dead or injured in attacks on Burkina military HQ, French embassy Ouagadougou - Armed men attacked the French embassy in Burkina Faso and the country's military headquarters on Friday before being repelled in a battle that left dozens dead or injured. A government source said 16 attackers and defenders died, while other sources reached by AFP from Paris sketched a bloodier outcome, with at least 28 killed. The coordinated offensive underscored the fragility of the Sahel nation, one of a string of African states struggling with a bloody jihadist insurgency. Read more on this story here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  