Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has won a second term with 96.9% of valid votes, state media reported on Friday, raising a previous tally from the preliminary count. The flagship state-owned newspaper Al-Ahram also raised its estimate of turnout in the March 26-28 election to 42.08%, saying 25 million of Egypt's 60 million registered voters had cast ballots. On Tuesday, the paper had reported that Sisi was reelected with 92% of the vote on a turnout of just over 40%. It gave no explanation for the upward revisions. Sisi, who as army chief ousted Egypt's first freely elected president - Islamist Mohamed Morsi - after mass street protests in 2013, won his first term in 2014 with 96.9% of the vote. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by
subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. The only other candidate on the ballot paper this year, Moussa Mostafa Moussa, won 3.1% of the vote, Al-Ahram said. Moussa, a little-known politician who is himself a supporter of the president, registered immediately before the close date for applications, saving the election from being a one-horse race. The National Election Authority is scheduled to announce the full official result on Monday. Moussa conceded defeat on Wednesday evening, saying he had hoped for 10% of the vote but knew all along that he was up against the "immense popularity" of the president. More heavyweight would-be challengers were all sidelined, detained or pulled out. Opposition groups had called for a boycott of this week's vote which they labelled a charade. Even at 42%, turnout was down on the 47% in the 2014 election despite appeals from Prime Minister Sherif Ismail for voters to fulfil their patriotic duty. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  