Zim ruling Zanu-PF party to strip Mugabe of immunity, privileges? Harare - Zimbabwe's ruling party says Robert Mugabe could lose his immunity and privileges as a former head of state and face expulsion from the party. This comes after Mugabe last week told journalists that President Emmerson Mnangagwa had been imposed by the army and was in office illegally. The party will meet "Zanu-PF will have to meet to discuss these new developments… to review whether it is still necessary or not for him (Mugabe) to continue enjoying the status we had given him," the party's secretary for legal affairs, Paul Mangwana told the state-run Herald. Read more on this story here Zim leader names, shames looters... nearly $1bn remains stashed overseas Harare - Zimbabwe's new leader has publicly named more than 1 800 companies and individuals accused of illegally stashing hundreds of millions of dollars overseas and not bringing the money home under a now-expired amnesty deal. President Emmerson Mnangagwa has vowed to fight corruption after the dramatic resignation in November of longtime leader Robert Mugabe, whose government was accused of widespread mismanagement of the once-prosperous country. Mnangagwa in December announced the amnesty deal, which expired Friday. He now says $591 million of the $1.2 billion suspected to be illegally stashed overseas has been returned. Read more on this story here WATCH: Zimbabweans doubt over Mnangagwa's corruption crackdown Nearly four months after he was sworn in as Zimbabwe's new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, says significant progress has been made in reversing the endemic corruption under Robert Mugabe's rule. His government set up a 90-day amnesty to return stolen assets or face prosecution. But critics say more needs to be done to make sure the recovered money benefits ordinary people. For more on this story click here 20 dead as powerful storm hits Madagascar Antananarivo - A powerful tropical storm that lashed the island of Madagascar has left 20 people dead and affected 19 000 more, according to an official toll. The storm also closed several national highways that were flooded by the heavy rain, the country's disaster management office said late Monday. In a previous toll late Sunday it said 17 people had died and 15 000 had been affected. Storm Eliakim slammed into the northeastern Masoala peninsula on Friday before barrelling south down the coast. By Monday it had moved away from the Indian Ocean island and "presents no more danger". For more on this story click here Nigeria was warned before Boko Haram abduction: Amnesty Lago - Nigeria's military was on Tuesday accused of ignoring repeated warnings about the movements of Boko Haram fighters before they kidnapped 110 schoolgirls in the country's restive northeast. The students - the youngest of whom is aged just 10 - were seized from the town of Dapchi, Yobe state, on February 19 in virtually identical circumstances to those in Chibok in 2014. Then, more than 200 schoolgirls were taken in an attack that brought sustained world attention on the Islamist insurgency and sparked a global campaign for their release. For more on this story click here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  