Sudan, the world's last male northern white rhino, at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Laikipia county in Kenya. (AP Photo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Patricia De Lille threatens to go to court if DA hearing is not open, State withdraws child abuse charge against IPID head Robert McBride and Cricket South Africa hopes Rabada drama forces ICC rethink.Here are today’s top stories: Moyane threatens Ramaphosa with legal action over suspension In a letter that Tom Moyane wrote to President Cyril Ramaphosa on March 19, he said that his suspension was part of an "unlawful process". The Hawks have denied allegations that they are targeting Public 
Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan for supposedly taking part in 
illegal interceptions and spying during his time as SARS commissioner. CSA hopes Rabada drama forces ICC rethink Cricket South Africa (CSA) is hopeful that the Kagiso Rabada drama of the past 10 days will force an ICC rethink in terms of the implementation of its Code of Conduct. EFF's Shivambu regrets attack on journalist   World's last male northern white rhino dies The world's last male northern white rhino, Sudan, has died after 
"age-related complications", researchers announced on Tuesday, saying he
 "stole the heart of many with his dignity and strength". State withdraws child abuse charge against IPID head Robert McBride The State has provisionally withdrawn a charge of child abuse against 
IPID head Robert McBride in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Tuesday 
morning. De Lille threatens to go to court if DA hearing is not open Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille has threatened to approach the courts if her request for an open hearing is not granted. Civil society's next target: the education of our children The foundation of any civilised society is surely the sanctity of the 
human life and the principle that all lives have the same inherent 
value. Carlos Santana on coming back to SA: My home is in Africa Ahead of his local tour Carlos spoke to Channel24 about what brings him back to the Rainbow Nation, who his favourite African musicians are and what inspires him to keep making amazing music. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  