Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 Mitchell’s Plain police have made a breakthrough in recent robbery cases where tourists were targeted at the Wolfgat Nature Reserve. The two separate incidents took place over the past month with the most recent incident taking place on Monday 26 February. Police have arrested a 35-year-old man who has been linked to the two robberies and police say more arrests are expected to follow. The suspect is linked to a case that took place on 26 February at 12:30 at Wolfgat Nature Reserve where the complainant, a German tourist, had stopped to take photos. The man was then approached by two men who robbed him of his Canon 600D digital camera valued at R8000. The suspects ran into the bush and disappeared after the attack. The suspect is also linked to a robbery that took place on Friday 23 February at 12:11, where a French tourist was busy taking photos when she was robbed of her bag containing an iPhone 6 and cash with a total value of R8100. This is the second and third incidents of tourists being robbed at the secluded lookout points and reserve trails in the Wolfgat area this year (“Tourists robbed at beach”, People’s Post, 30 January). The incident took place on Monday 22 January at 14:00 when the German couple were at the lookout point in Baden Powell Drive. The couple were on holiday and were threatened by a man wielding a sharp object. He made off with cellphones, money, luggage, two road bikes, wallets, passports and their rental car. Speedy police investigation lead to the arrest of two men in connection with this incident. On Tuesday 23 January at 10:00 police arrested two suspects – aged 26 and 27 – in Tafelsig and recovered an Orbea bicycle, three bottles of wine, a backpack and three luggage bags including a bicycle tube, sensor, light and hairdryer. Tourists and residents are urged to remain vigilant and cautious at these sites. V 
  Anyone with information on the incidents or may have been a victim of a robbery in the Wolfgat Nature Reserve area is asked to call the investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Monolitho Haywood, on 082 777 8076. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  