Mahlatse Mahlase Ace Magashule. (The Witness) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - The ANC has expanded the Free State provincial task team (PTT) with six additional members, following complaints from disgruntled members that the interim structure appointed to oversee fresh elections was dominated by former chairperson Ace Magashule's faction. Magashule, who is now the party's secretary general, told journalists on Wednesday that the PTT now included representatives from Cosatu, Sanco, the youth league and the veterans. "[The] Free State matter is now closed," he said. Magashule added that the party's national working committee that met on Monday, adopted the decision to expand the PTT, which is supposed to lead the province to fresh elections. The provincial elective conference was set aside by the court last year. "We have said yes, we met the comrades and we are expanding the PTT.  We have listened to their requests," Magashule said. But disgruntled members were still not satisfied. They claimed four of the six additional members were part of the Magashule faction. 'Inclusive and balanced' They had earlier argued that the PTT had 12 members who were from the previous provincial executive committee that was nullified by the courts, and only two from the faction that successfully challenged the December elective conference. Former provincial treasurer Mxolisi Dukwana, who is also part of the PTT, led one of the two groups that marched to Luthuli House, demanding a "balanced" PTT He said increasing the number of members of the interim structure did not ensure that the interim structure had an equal number of representatives of the warring factions in the province. "We are amazed that the secretary general believes that the addition of the six other comrades responds to the demand to ensure that the interim committee is both inclusive and balanced. We did not request for it be expanded, but [asked for it] to be inclusive and balanced," Dukwana told News24. READ: Disgruntled Free State ANC members take their complaints to party headquarters He decried the addition of a youth league representative, arguing that the league was already represented in the PTT and that two of their members were ex officio members already. "The fact of the matter is that they have increased the number of their people and only gave us two." "It does not resolve what we have complained about it. It is still not balanced and not inclusive, Dukwana said. 'Face the disciplinary' He added that, if the NWC adopted the expansion, it was "misled". Meanwhile, Magashule said that they would be instituting disciplinary action against members who were ill-disciplined during the protest at the ANC headquarters. He said some broke windows, while others used foul language. "We have taken the decision to say that those who were ill-disciplined, who disrupted and were swearing, they will face the disciplinary committee in the province so that we deal with ill-discipline and anarchy within the organisation," Magashule said. Dukwana said while the party had the prerogative to discipline members and added that they would monitor that they were not targeting members who were vocal. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  