Nkateko Ritshuri -MyNews24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Land expropriation refers to the Government's act of
taking/expropriating privately owned land, with an aim of benefiting the public
out of it. What is meant by land expropriation without compensation
is that, the government takes the land from the owner, without any financial
compensation. Based on the Land Expropriation Act 63 of 1975, Section 25, the
government has the authority to expropriate the land, provided it be on the
interest of the public. What needs to be considered Considering the fact that South Africa lived under the
colonial rule, in which the Native Land Act (1913) gave a small portion of
land to Blacks, it can be stressed that the land expropriation without
compensation is some kind of "revenge" to the white owners, although
the government claims it affects all racial groups. Nonetheless, what needs to be considered are the
implications that this motion may come with. If the government concludes on
expropriating the land, will it manage on its own? Is the land expropriation
without compensation not a call to (i) food insecurity, (ii) decline in
investments, and (iii) job loss, just to mention few? (i) food insecurity The expropriation of land without compensation may cause
an increase to food prices. The higher the price, the lower the demand. This
simply means that due to an increase in the price of goods produced (food),
consumers may not afford to purchase such goods. In this regard, the poor will
suffer the most. This could also lead to an increase in criminal activities,
and even deaths due to mulnutrition. (ii) decline in investments The question may rise that, if the government takes the
land without compensation from the owners, what happens to the investments they
made? The answer is, potential investors may decline, and won't the banks
suffer? They will. Due to this reason, getting more investors might not be so
easy. (iii) job loss It is also questionable as to whether the government has
thought of the farm workers. For example, if the government takes the land from
the farm owner, what happens to the farm worker? He becomes jobless with no
means of income. This takes us back to the issue of food insecurity. In conclusion, the land expropriation without compensation
in South Africa may result in the similar situation with that of Zimbabwe in
2000. The former president Robert Mugabe expropriated land from white farmers
without compensation. He strongly believed it was best for the Zimbabweans, but
unfortunately it only led to hyperinflation, which implicated the country's
economy. It led to food insecurity, jobloss, challenged the country's foreign
exchange and trade relations. Many Zimbabweans fled the country to neighbouring
countries, hoping to find a better living. In this sense, the land
expropriation without compensation may impact badly in South Africa. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  