Omega Moagi At the media briefing on Tuesday were IEC regional manager Sphiwe Yeni (left) and communications manager Sihle Mbatha.PHOTO: omega moagi Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE IEC in the Ugu region, as a matter of urgency, has called all voters to report to their voting station next weekend to update their residential address. Speaking at a media briefing held at the local IEC offices in Port Shepstone, regional manager Sphiwe Yeni said the project was initiated at the command of the Constitutional Court, with a deadline of June 30. He said the commission has gone to great lengths to ensure the readiness of the voters’ roll for the 2019 elections and preparations included investigations into each voter’s information as well as sourcing details from other state information organs like Stats SA, Sassa, Telkom, SA Post Office and the Department of Home Affairs. Yeni said that in the region, of the 362 778 total voters registered on the voters’ roll, 246 816 are with addresses and 113 022 do not have addresses captured for them with the Ray Nkonyeni Municipality, with 50 958 addresses not captured at all. “The voters’ roll is the bedrock of electoral integrity. Its quality is the foundation for credible, free and fair elections. “This includes making sure all eligible voters are registered in the correct segment of the voters’ roll. “The requisite quality of the voters’ roll is depended on the support and participation of voters and all stakeholders,” said Yeni. He said it is also important that voters register accurate addresses on the voters’ roll and a failure to do so could lead to charges of electoral fraud. First-time voters are also encouraged to go and register, and voters who have relocated are also required to update addresses. “Voters visiting their voting station should take a copy of their bar-coded ID book, smart card ID or temporary ID certificate. “They will be assisted to complete a registration form providing their home address at which they ordinarily reside, which will allow the Electoral Commission to place them in the correct voting district. Proof of residence is not required,” said Yeni. For more information, contact the IEC contact centre at 0800 11 8000 Monday to Friday during office hours. Registered voters can also SMS their ID number to 32810 to receive an SMS containing the address of their voting station (charged at R1). To update details online, visit the IEC website at https://www.elections.org.za/MyIEC/Account/Register. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  