Lizeka Tandwa Minister Nathi Mthethwa with former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas on the launch of anti-racism week. (Lizeka Tandwa, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – Former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas is not opposed to the EFF's proposal for him to be the next mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay, he implied on Tuesday. Speaking to journalists at the launch of Anti-Racism Network of South Africa's annual anti-racism campaign, Jonas said he had not received any communication from the party on its proposal. "I am an ANC member, anything that I do would emerge out of what the ANC wants me to do." The EFF's proposed motion of no confidence places DA mayor Athol Trollip in danger of being removed from his position 18 months after he was put in power. Read: 'We are cutting the throat of whiteness' – Malema on plans to remove Trollip EFF leader Julius Malema said last week that he wanted to "punish" the DA in Nelson Mandela Bay for rejecting the EFF's motion to allow a constitutional review on land expropriation without compensation. Malema said the EFF wanted Jonas in the mayoral position. He said he believed that the ANC had punished Jonas for rejecting a R600m bribe from the Guptas by not choosing him to be part of President Cyril Ramaphosa's reshuffled Cabinet. The Guptas offered Jonas R600m and R600 000 to take with him then and there if he accepted the minister of finance position, he alleged. His shock revelation was hailed as brave and courageous by the public and made him the first high-level official to come out against the Gupta family and their alleged capture of the state. The Guptas, however, have denied this claim. EFF in discussions with ANC When asked if he was up to the task, Jonas said challenges faced by municipalities were political. He said it was a myth that one person could solve problems in the metro. "I don't know what the EFF's analysis has been. They have the freedom and latitude to make their own proposals," he added. News24 understands that the EFF is already in discussions with the ANC and other parties on the motion of no confidence against Trollip, which will be tabled on April 6. Also read: Why the EFF is dumping DA for ANC During an ANC elections workshop on Saturday, Fikile Mbalula said the party was open to discussions with the EFF. "We are not going to close a door to a discussion even before coalition formations. We need to speak to the EFF. We have always been open to talk on the question of coalition," Mbalula said. DA Eastern Cape leader Nqaba Bhanga in a statement said that the EFF had placed politics ahead of the needs of Nelson Mandela Bay residents, News24 reported."The EFF's decision not to support Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB) municipality's 2017/18 adjustment budget undermines the work that has been done by the multiparty coalition government since 2016."Bhanga said council would not be able to proceed with important service delivery programmes as a result.On the threats of a motion of no confidence, Bhanga said the EFF's "political schizophrenia" would only harm the people of Nelson Mandela Bay. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  