Retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke has ordered that government pay all Life Esidimeni claimants the agreed amounts, with some families awarded over R1m in compensation. - For the latest updates, follow News24 reporter Amanda Khoza: @MandaKhoza  Jump to
                    bottom Moseneke: "I make the following award..." 1. The government of the Republic of South Africa, as represented by the national Minister of Health, the premier of Gauteng, and member of the executive council of health Gauteng province (hereinafter the government), is ordered to pay the agreed amount of R20 000 to each of the claimants listed in annexures A and B, in respect of funeral expenses. 2. The government is ordered to pay R180 000, to each of the claimants listed in annexures A, B and C, in respect of general damages for shock and psychological trauma. 3. The government is ordered to pay R1-million to each of the claimants listed in annexures A, B and C, as appropriate relief and compensation, for the government's unjustifiable and reckless breaches of Section 1 A and C and D of Section 7, Section 10, Section 12(1) D, Section 12(1) E, Section 27(1) A, Section 27(1) B, Section 195(1) A, B, D, E, F and G of the Constitution, and multiple contraventions of the National Health Act 61 of 2003, the Mental Health Act 17 of 202, that caused the death of 144 healthcare users and the pain and suffering and torture of 1 480 mental healthcare users who survived, and their families. As required by the arbitration agreement, the amounts in paragraph 1, 2 and 3, must be paid by the government in lump sum, not later than three months from the date of the publication of this award, and in any event, not later than the 19th of June 2018.  Moseneke commends the legal counsel that appeared on behalf of the families of victims, who waived some of their fees, and says in that same spirit he "will donate all my arbitrators fees to law schools that will help nurture young women and men committed to defending the vulnerable against the abuse of the high and mighty."  Moseneke makes mention of criminal proceedings that will "obviously arise" based on the results of the inquiry's findings. Moseneke says he has provided a full report to the SAPS, and it is up to them to do their job properly.  Moseneke says he won't differentiate between "categories" of claimants, but will make a "uniform award to favour claimants".  Moseneke: A legion of constitutional rights have been breached.  Moseneke now on the matter of compensation, and the infringement of constitutional rights.  Moseneke: "Mahlangu failed to explain why she allowed the lives of users to be placed at risk. She brushed aside advice that there would be deaths, and deaths did ensue. Her decision was irrational and reckless."  Moseneke: On all accounts, "Mahlangu was at the helm of the marathon project... she was the leader and commander of the project."  Moseneke now moves on to Dr Selebano and his role in the Life Esidimeni marathon project. Moseneke: "Dr Selebano repeatedly said he was accountable as HOD. He said he was opposed to the marathon project... he was afraid of Ms Mahlangu (who was his political principal) and he carried out the project because of fear of Ms Mahlangu..." "This is an extraordinary tale."  Dr Manamela was not a victim, but an integral part of the decision-making process, says Moseneke.  Moseneke: "The point here is not what the families did, it is what Dr Selebano, Dr Manamela and Ms Mahlangu did not do. They chose not to stop the project." "The public service motto of Batho Pele ("People First") was trampled upon."  Families protested against the large-scale move to NGOs right from the beginning, Moseneke says.  Moseneke: "Ms Mahlangu and Ms Manamela said they were entitled to empty the Life Esidimeni facilities because the mental health care users had been abandoned."  Moseneke: "All the facts here point to cruelty and torture."  Moseneke: "The government failed them dismally."  Dumi Masondo was less than truthful, says Moseneke The review board deserted its statutory duties Moseneke: "There is no doubt that the NGOs used in the marathon project were bound to keep the records of the mental health care users and to provide proper mental health care for the users..."  Moseneke: Public administration officials should be held accountable.  #LifeEsidimeni: Moseneke officials should be ethical, be responsive to people's needs, be accountable and transparent, among other things. @TeamNews24 #LifeEsidimeni: Moseneke says officials ought to act within the law all the time, not accelerate their political status.@TeamNews24 Moseneke: NGOs by taking in the healthcare users acted in the authority of the state and acquired Constitutional obligations and were therefore bound to exercise their duties lawfully. #LifeEsidimeni #LifeEsidimeni: Moseneke: "They were bound to execute their mandate lawfully." @TeamNews24 #LifeEsidimeni: Moseneke: "Our Constitution binds all organs of state and state officials who made decisions on the marathon project, they were bound by the Constitution." @TeamNews24 Moseneke reads out the rights from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the African Charter, the charter on people with disabilities which among others states that everyone has a right to life, liberty,access to healthcare and no one may be subject to torture #LifeEsidimeni Moseneke: Obligation by government to mental health care users can be found in the Constitution, in legislation and our adherence to international laws. #LifeEsidimeni #LifeEsidimeni: Moseneke talks about people living with disabilities and their rights. @TeamNews24 #LifeEsidimeni: Moseneke goes over international law on human rights. "Our Constitution says all have a right to life and security." @TeamNews24 #LifeEsidimeni: Moseneke: "Next I turn to the government's obligation towards caring for the mental care users." @TeamNews24 Jump to
                top