Mandla Mahashe Niece Tessa Madubula, Lydia Ndinisa, an in-law, and daughter Thimna Ellesse wept uncontrolably as mourners streamed in. PHOTO: tarzan mbita Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Ellese Depouch, a former ANC Ward 36 Councillor in Unathi, in Crossroads, has died. This happened on Tuesday evening after he was pumped with a hail of bullets by armed and unknown assailants just as his young daughter was opening the gates to his house to allow him to drive through, after Ellese and his wife were returning home from relaying to family members the death of another family member. His wife escaped with a bullet wound to her arm. According to his youngest sister Andiswa Madubula, the shooting incident happened after 9pm in the evening. “He was driving, and just as their daughter was opening the gate, two men suddenly appeared on the scene, and just kept on firing at him ... They came for him. His wife suffered a bullet wound to her right arm.” She added: “We don’t know how many times he was hit, but we counted about eleven times, with his wife being hit in the arm,”. Ellese died on his way to hospital she said, adding that there were no visible wounds to his head, and that the bullets were all aimed at the deceased’s body. By Wednesday morning, as close relatives and sympathisers were streaming into the house in Misani Street, it was revealed that his wife Nobuntu De Pouch, was still in hospital. Madubula also revealed that her brother had survived many attempts on his life, until now. “There have been numerous attempts on his life ... That is public knowledge, its a known fact ... De Pouch had been a councillor in the area for about 18 years. The first of these attacks on his life was reported in 2002, as he was dropping his children off at a crèche in Gugulethu. Madubula said that this was a big loss for the family, as “He was a father and a brother to us. it is a big loss for us. Nyanga police station commander Brigadier Vuyisile Ncatha confirmed the death and appealed to the public to come forward. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  