News24 reporter (File, Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Four men have been arrested on charges of assault and intimidation following an incident at a Diep River, Cape Town, eatery which unfolded on Monday evening, barely two weeks after suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack and four others were released on bail in an extortion case relating to nightclubs and restaurants. News24 understands that one of the four men taken into custody on Monday evening is one of Modack's four co-accused in the extortion case. However, it is understood the four arrests on Monday evening are not related to charges in that case. A source who claimed to have knowledge of the incident said a fight had broken out at the restaurant in Diep River and that knives had been drawn. But this source did not say what the fight was about. Others said it related to a Worcester debt matter. On Tuesday Western Cape police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andre Traut confirmed to News24 that four men were arrested on Monday night on charges of intimidation and assault relating to an incident in a Diep River restaurant. "The circumstances are being investigated and names of the suspects cannot be disclosed," he said. Modack and his four co-accused, Jacques Cronje, Ashley Fields, Carl Lakay and Colin Booysen – the brother of alleged Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome Booysen – face extortion charges relating to nightclub security. For a detailed breakdown of events in the underworld nightclub security takeover, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked The men were arrested on December 15 and after a lengthy application, in which several claims were made against police, were granted bail in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on February 28. Magistrate Joe Magele had found that "requisite elements are found to be lacking" in the State's case. Modack and Cronje were also charged with attempted extortion in Johannesburg. They were both granted bail of R10 000 each in that case. In January, Modack and his relative Ikeraam Modack were charged with the theft of a motor vehicle, but this case was withdrawn in the Goodwood Magistrate's Court earlier this month.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  