Mxolisi Mngadi (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – The family of a prominent Durban businessman, who was shot and wounded during a robbery at his Westville home on Thursday night, says he is in a stable condition in hospital. Imraan Randeree of Randeree Jewellers survived the shooting, but his mother-in-law Rookaya Dhooma died on the scene after two intruders shot them during the robbery at about 21:30. Shots were fired as they tried to protect the rest of the family from the armed robbers. Randeree's brother Ashraf confirmed in a statement on Friday afternoon that Randeree was in a stable condition and "is currently under observation in ICU". "It was a blessing that his injuries were not more severe. Our family is heartbroken on the demise of our dear Marhooma Rookaya Dhooma," he said. READ: Elderly woman shot dead, son-in-law wounded in Durban home robbery He appealed to the media and the public to respect the family's privacy during this time. "We have been made aware that there are unverified WhatsApp and social media messages that are circulating, and we appeal to people to refrain from passing around these speculations," said Ashraf. He added: "While we mourn the loss of a very good woman, in these tough and trying times, we ask that you keep my brother and our family in your prayers and thoughts." Ruled out rumours As'ad Patel, organiser of the Westville Neighbourhood Watch and vice-chair of the suburb's community policing forum, told News24 that two cellphones had been taken during the robbery. He ruled out rumours that the robbery was premeditated and linked to the fact that Randeree owns a jewellery shop. "Details of the incident were still sketchy at the moment, but house robberies are common in the area," he said. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said Randeree and his family were at home when they noticed two unknown men forcing the door open. "The complainant and his mother-in-law instructed the other family members to hide while they were pushing the door." She said the suspects opened fire, fatally wounding his mother-in-law and leaving Randeree injured. "Cases of house robbery, attempted murder and murder were opened at Westville police station for investigation. No arrests or recoveries have been made," Mbhele said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  