Tiyese Jeranji Search is on for Pollsmoor Prison escapees (Police) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories UPDATE: Three of the Pollsmoor Prison have been arrested.  Gershwin Mol was arrested at a scrapyard in Blackheath. Two more arrests were made in Oceanview, were Courtney None and Emile Witbooi were arrested. Pollsmoor Prison spokesperson Lewis Davids says they are extremely glad that the public is assisting them with the information and whereabouts of the escapees. Department of Correctional Services together with the police officers are leaving no stone unturned to find three of six inmates that  escaped from Pollsmoor Prison in Tokai yesterday (Sunday 11 March). Western Cape Regional Commissioner of Correctional Services, Delekile Klaas, has confirmed the incident. Klaas says the prisoners were in a cell with other 20 inmates that didn’t escape. The unit has 139 offenders and one official was on duty at the time of the incident. “Six youth offender escaped from B4, Medium B Pollsmoor Prison. They escaped through breaking burglar bars of the cell from there they jumped through the fence at the back of the prison. They used a rope to jump the fence and escaped. Klaas says four out of the six offenders were serving short sentences and they were due to be released between April and June. “The other two, one of them was a maximum offender serving 12 years for house breaking and attempted murder. The other one was serving four years for rape. These offenders threatened other offenders in the cell saying they should not make noise and they should not indicate that they are breaking the window. We view what they have done in a serious light and we are of the view that they are dangerous in the fact that they escaped. They are currently fugitive from the law. Both our teams from the emergency support team and the police officers are looking for them all over the province, at this stage we believe they are still around Cape Town. We are convinced that we should be able to capture them very soon, we are following various leads currently,” he says. Klaas says that the cells are secure however they are of the view that the offenders used quiet a lot of force. "From there when there were outside it became easy for them to jump the fences and hide in the community. Fences currently are not electrified they are busy working on the challenges of the fence. We immediately called for backup but it was at night making our efforts challenging,” he says.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  