Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba. (Photo: Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation says it's thanks to the EFF's protest that H&M has promised an overhaul of its marketing divisions, DA leader Mmusi Maimane has announced that Cape Town may be able to avoid Day Zero this year and after 13 years of being on e-tv’s drama series Scandal!  Kagiso Modupe is leaving the show to pursue his other talents. CONFIRMED: Atul Gupta a registered voter - IEC"A certain Atul Gupta" is indeed a registered voter on the South African voters roll, the Electoral Commission of South Africa confirmed on Wednesday. Gigaba 'erroneously' said Atul Gupta is not a SA citizen - Home Affairs DG The Department of Home Affairs has attempted to clear the confusion surrounding the naturalisation of the Guptas by clarifying that Atul and Rajesh Gupta are indeed South African citizens, but that fugitive Ajay Gupta is not. Gordhan calls for visible govt action to restore trust in SA Inc Since December the future of South Africa has been more certain and optimistic, Minister of Public Enterprises Pravin Gordhan said on Wednesday, adding that the government needs to be seen taking visible action to restore trust in SA Inc. EFF protests helped change H&M operations - Ahmed Kathrada Foundation It's thanks to the Economic Freedom Fighters' protest that international clothing retailer H&M has promised an overhaul of its marketing divisions, Ahmed Kathrada Foundation director Neeshan Balton said. De Kock set to fight ICC charge at hearing Proteas wicket-keeper batsman Quinton de Kock will dispute the charge handed down to him by the ICC for his involvement with Australian batsman David Warner at Kingsmead. Cape Town may avoid Day Zero this year - MaimaneDA leader Mmusi Maimane announced on Wednesday that Cape Town may be able to avoid Day Zero this year. Maimane was speaking at a press briefing on the current water status in the Mother City. SASCOC to pay R55 000 for every gold at Gold Coast The South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (SASCOC) has provided its 182-member Commonwealth Games squad incentives for the Gold Coast. Kagiso Modupe on his plans after Scandal! After 13 thirteen years of being on e-tv’s drama series, Scandal! - Kagiso Modupe is leaving the show to pursue his other talents. Its always easy to say hello...But difficult to say goodbye. Moving forward in life is a necessity in order to experience personal growth and change. As humans, we tend to stay in places that make us feel safe and comfortable however it’s when you move outside of that comfort zone, all the magic happens.?? #kenako2018 A post shared by  Kagiso "inspired by life" (@kagisomodupe) on Mar 6, 2018 at 10:37pm PST  'We need to have a discussion about the old flag' Activist Johan Pienaar wants people to start talking about the old South African flag. Pienaar laid down the old Oranje, Blanje, Blou (orange, white, blue) with names of some of the most prominent apartheid architects and enablers written on it, inviting attendees of the US Woordfees in Stellenbosch to walk on it. Warner escapes ban after De Kock drama Australian batsman David Warner has escaped a Test ban and has instead been fined 75 percent (R160 000) of his match fee and three demerit points following his bust-up with Proteas batsman Quinton de Kock at Kingsmead on Sunday.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  