White farmers: We won't 'blindly endorse' govt policies in the agricultural sector Harare – The Commercial Farmers' Union of Zimbabwe (CFU) has reportedly pledged to work with President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s government to boost the country’s agricultural productivity and contribute towards economic growth and development. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, speaking at the national land tenure and policy dialogue over the weekend, CFU director, Ben Gilpin, acknowledge that the union was set up to represent the interest of white farmers since it was founded 100 years ago. Gilpin said that inequalities had contributed to the rationale for radical land reforms that the southern African country went through in the past two decades. Read more on this story here Kabila agrees to UN chief's request to visit DRC ahead of elections New York - Democratic Republic of Congo President Joseph Kabila has agreed to a request from UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres to visit his country ahead of elections later this year, the UN spokesperson said on Tuesday. Guterres wrote to Kabila to propose a joint visit with African Union chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat following a series of meetings he held on the sidelines of the AU summit in Addis Ababa in late January. There is growing international concern that the DRC could slide into all-out violence as it heads to elections on December 23. Read more on this story here Grace Mugabe's 'fake' PhD: University sends vice chancellor on forced leave Harare - The University of Zimbabwe has sent its vice chancellor on indefinite forced leave after he was arrested on charges of abuse of office over Grace Mugabe’s PhD. The university council took the decision to suspend Levi Nyagura after several hours of "very heated debate" said the state-controlled Herald newspaper on Wednesday. "A council resolution was taken that the vice chancellor be sent on an indefinite forced leave until the court cases are completed, as they could not let him stay since most of the State witnesses are his subordinates," an unnamed lecturer told the paper. For more on this story click here Time 'is running out for Zim looters' - report Harare – President Emmerson Mnangagwa's three months general pardon for those who siphoned funds and and assets out of Zimbabwe is expected to come to an end on Wednesday. According to the state-owned Chronicle newspaper, "the grace period which allowed looters to return the loot, with no questions asked" was set to come to an end. Mnangagwa announced in November a 90 day amnesty for the return of funds siphoned out of the country by individuals and corporations during ex-president Robert Mugabe's reign. For more on this story click here UPDATE: Trains collide north of Egyptian capital, 15 killed Cairo -  Two trains collided on Wednesday north of the Egyptian capital, Cairo, killing at least 15 people, authorities said, the latest deadly accident involving the country's underfunded and mismanaged railways. Another 40 people were injured in the accident, which took place in the Beheira province in the Nile delta, according to the country's state MENA news agency. The collision involved a cargo train and a passenger train heading to Cairo, the Health Ministry said. The casualty number was likely to increase, it added. Read more on this story here Minister says Chinese condoms 'too small for Zim man' - report Harare – Zimbabwean Health Minister David Parirenyatwa has reportedly challenged private manufactures in the country to produce condoms so as "to address concerns over the size of condoms imported from China". According to NewsDay, Parirenyatwa said the move would also save on foreign currency. Parirenyatwa said this while speaking during the launch of the Zimbabwe Private Sector HIV and Aids and Wellness (ZIPSHAW) co-ordinating board in the capital Harare. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  