Zim ruling party to Mugabe: 'Don't rock the boat… we won't be soft' Harare - Zimbabwe's ruling party and its allies have warned former president Robert Mugabe not to "rock the boat", a day after he was reported to have met with the country’s newest opposition leader. Mugabe has been accused of backing a new party called the National Patriotic Front led by former cabinet minister Ambrose Mutinhiri who visited Mugabe at his home on Sunday. "To us, it’s a bunch of failures trying to come back into politics," Zanu-PF youth leader Pupurai Togarepi told the private Daily News. Read more on this story here EFF calls on Africa to 'join in the wave of economic freedom of our lifetime' Cape Town – The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has called on Africa to "join in the wave of economic freedom", saying that the land and mineral resources on the African continent should be "redirected to benefit African people and their economies". The EFF said this in a statement on Tuesday while congratulating the west African country of Ghana on its 61st anniversary of independence. Read more on this story here 'Barbaric' MDC violence 'scaring away investors', says Zanu-PF Harare – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party has warned opposition political parties to desist from violent activities, saying that they should conduct themselves in a manner that is "acceptable to the citizens" ahead of the country's crunch elections later this year, a report says. Zanu-PF's harsh warning came amid intense infighting within the country's main opposition, the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC-T) party - over the party's top job, following the death of its long-time leader Morgan Tsvangirai last month. For more on this story click here Mnangagwa 'is a mature politician... he's capable of bringing change', Zim church leaders say Harare – Churches in Zimbabwe have reportedly endorsed President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government, saying that the country "is not a militarised state". According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, various church leaders this week defended Mnangagwa's administration and maintained that Zimbabwe was "not a militarised state", as key institutions were "not manned by military personnel". They said that Mnangagwa was "capable of ushering in change". Read more on this story here Sierra Leoneans choose among 16 presidential candidates Freetown - Sierra Leone's voters are choosing a new president from among 16 candidates in a race that has sparked debate over dual nationality and eligibility for the country's highest office. The front-runners in Wednesday's vote are Samura Kamara, the incumbent's pick as successor, and Julius Maada Bio, the man who was defeated in the 2012 election. The race most likely will head to a second round later in March as observers say it's unlikely any one candidate will receive 55% of the vote. For more on this story click here Thousands of women march in Guinea over police violence Conakry - Thousands of women, clad in white, marched in the Guinean capital of Conakry on Wednesday in protest at a violent crackdown on political demonstrations following elections last month. Around 5 000 women, dressed in the local colour of mourning, took part in the three-kilometre march, according to an AFP estimate. The organisers put the turnout at 10 000 They carried banners reading, "Too many deaths - the state is still asleep" and "Alpha rhymes with crime," a reference to the president of the West African state, Alpha Conde. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  