Emmerson Mnangagwa. (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s upbeat view of Zimbabwe in
the New York Times has received mixed reaction at home, with calls for him to
repeal harsh laws and give freedom of expression and association to all,
including his predecessor Robert Mugabe. Writing in the New York Times this week Mnangagwa said "Zimbabwe is changing, and quickly". False note Mnangagwa said his government would protect investments, uphold the
rule of law, ensure free and fair elections and entrench civil liberties. "I commit that in the new Zimbabwe, all citizens will have
the right of free speech, free expression and free association," he wrote. But to some that pledge struck a false note as tough
security and press laws – known by their acronyms POSA and AIPPA - remain in
place. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. "As long as he doesn't talk of repealing draconian laws such
as POSA, AIPPA that is fake news," said @mr_diimz. Writing on Twitter, former education minister David Coltart
also poured cold water over the article, which was published under the headline "Toward a new Zimbabwe". Biased coverage "It will be so much more believable if the Constitution is
complied with – especially sec 61 (4) – free the airwaves!!," said Coltart in
reference to a section of the national charter that says state media should be "impartial" and give voice to "divergent views and dissenting opinions". Instead, state media remains heavily biased in favour of the
government and ruling party. Mnangagwa's rallies, like Mugabe's before him, are
broadcast live, a privilege not given to the opposition. Freedom of association? Mnangagwa's pledge of freedom of association was also
greeted with scorn, a week after state media and ruling party officials
verbally attacked Mugabe for meeting with a former cabinet minister who leads a
new party. Some officials accused Mugabe of trying to destabilise
Zanu-PF, while Mnangagwa said he was "not happy" about Mugabe's reported
backing for the New Patriotic Front. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  