Boipelo Mere Letlhogonolo Lucky Nche with his award for best dance teacher in the further education and training (FET) phase. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A local achiever has received the award for best dance teacher in the further education and training (FET) phase at the Northern Cape Department of Education’s Annual Teacher Appreciation Awards ceremony for the second time in a row. Letlhogonolo Lucky Nche, a teacher at the St Cyprian’s Grammar School, proudly lifted the award at the ceremony held at the Adamantia High School in Kimberley on 1 March. He believes that receiving such an accolade twice in a row makes it evident that he is “heading in the right direction”. The ceremony, hosted by the Northern Cape Department of Education, recognises teachers in the FET phase based on performance in the National Senior Certificate (NSC) Examinations. According to the department, hard work, diligence and commitment are recognised, while teachers are rewarded for outstanding teaching and leadership per subject from all five quintiles across the school spectrum. At least 134 award winners are reported to have been honoured during the ceremony. Judging was based on the following criteria: “Considering the little experience I entered the education sector with, I really never thought I would be this far today. Only teachers who have produced excellent results in their NSC year gets to win this award,” Nche said. “For me it is really about doing my job to the best of my ability, the love of it, the passion, and how you keep your students inspired.” He pointed out that the art sector has never guaranteed an easy career path, as following this path requires hard workers and determined people. “With art you can’t survive by one job, and therefore you need to stimulate other skills that you have and deploy them to the relevant places.” Dr Michelle Ishmail, deputy director general of Examination and Curriculum, saluted the award winners and encouraged them to work even harder to motivate and inspire learners. Delivering the keynote address, she reminded teachers that they were, “our nation builders, the strength of every profession in our country that grows out of the knowledge and skills that teachers help to instil in our learners”. Ishmail lauded the teachers for their dedication. “Your achievement shows that despite the times of challenges and controversy we face in our education system, our schools continue to have a cadre of torch-bearers, tirelessly working hard to deliver quality teaching,” said Ishmail. “Better education is sorely needed by the young and this beautiful country of ours that is in dire need of development. “I can say with confidence that, given the level of excellence displayed by tonight’s recipients, we are on the right path that will help us overcome the many challenges confronting our education system.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  