Early morning traffic build-up in Nel Street, Muden Road and Voortrekker Street. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories JUST on a year ago, the Greytown Gazette headlined a front-page report: “Accident waiting to happen”, highlighting the concerns of Greytown High School and St David’s School parents, teachers and pupils with regard to the serious and dangerous situation as vehicles drop off and pick up pupils before and after school. Over the years, many appeals have been made to the municipality to take action to safeguard lives but a petition with hundreds of signatures submitted last year was not only not even acknowledged by the municipality, but also did not trigger any action. Nel Street runs alongside the school into Muden Road, which is also intersected by Voortrekker Street. Last Monday, a young girl was knocked down by a hit-and-run driver. She was walking over the pedestrian crossing when she was hit. A mother who witnessed the accident asked: “Do we need to see a child killed before something is done?” (See letter on page 11.) A traffic officer was appointed by the municipality, but according to parents, usually arrives after 7 am while many children start arriving from 6.30 am onwards. Last Monday, the hit-and-run occurred at 7.05 am and the officer arrived a minute or so later. However, for the rest of the week the officer was there from 6.55 am. Traffic coming from Muden, Rietvlei, etc. transporting schoolchildren, workers, shoppers and others, peaks before 7 am. The speed at which some of these vehicles are travelling adds to the danger factor for the schoolchildren at the intersection of this road and Nel Street. Nel Street is in an appalling state and has been for the past three years. It is in urgent need of total repair. Again nothing has been done by the powers that be to repair and restore this excuse of a road. Compounding the situation is the fact that there is no designated parking so vehicles are parked haphazardly on the narrow verge or in the streets as the schoolchildren stream in and out of the schools. When the report appeared last year on March 15, a young schoolgirl had been knocked down and injured. Today’s report refers to another young schoolgirl who was knocked down and injured by a hit-and-run driver. Is it a question of now waiting for someone to be killed before the municipality does something about this long-standing problem? 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  