File: AFP Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lagos - Nigeria's government now says 91 of the 110 schoolgirls abducted a month ago by Boko Haram are confirmed freed. The information minister tells reporters that a boy also has been released. Nigeria's government has said "no ransoms were paid" in the release. Witnesses in Dapchi town say Boko Haram extremists released the girls in the middle of town before dawn on Wednesday with a warning: "Don't ever put your daughters in school again." ___ 11:30 Nigeria's government says "no ransoms were paid" in the release of dozens of schoolgirls kidnapped a month ago by Boko Haram extremists. Nigeria says 76 of the 110 schoolgirls are confirmed freed but that the release is "ongoing." The country's information minister says the girls were released "through back-channel efforts and with the help of some friends of the country, and it was unconditional." Witnesses in Dapchi town say the extremists drove into town before dawn and dropped off the girls with a warning: "Don't ever put your daughters in school again." ___ 11:05 Nigeria's government says 76 of the 110 schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram extremists a month ago have been freed. An aide to President Muhammadu Buhari cites the country's information minister as saying the release of the 76 has been confirmed. The fate of the remaining 34 schoolgirls is not clear. Witnesses in Dapchi town say Boko Haram extremists released the girls in the middle of town before dawn with a warning: "Don't ever put your daughters in school again." Boko Haram translates as "Western education is forbidden" in the local Hausa language. ___ 10:10 Boko Haram militants have issued an ominous warning to the parents of the Nigerian schoolgirls after releasing the girls in the town where they were abducted a month ago. A witness in the town of Dapchi tells The Associated Press that the fighters told residents they had returned the girls "out of pity." "And don't ever put your daughters in school again," they warned. Boko Haram translates as "Western education is forbidden" in the local Hausa language. It is not immediately clear how many of the 110 girls have been freed. In 2014, the group abducted 276 schoolgirls from Chibok, and about 100 of them have never returned to their families. ___ 09:35 Witnesses say Boko Haram militants have returned an unknown number of the 110 girls who were abducted from their Nigeria school a month ago. Umar Hassan, a resident in Dapchi town, tells The Associated Press that many fled upon hearing that Boko Haram insurgents were headed into the town again. He says that while in hiding, residents saw the missing girls getting out of the Boko Haram vehicles. A second resident, Kachallah Musa, says the militants later left without any confrontation. It is not immediately clear how many of the girls have been freed. Their release comes a day after an Amnesty International report accused the Nigerian military of failing to heed warnings of the attack. The military has called the report an "outright falsehood." ___ 08:30 Nigeria's military is dismissing as "outright falsehood" an Amnesty International report that claims security forces were warned several times ahead of a mass abduction of 110 schoolgirls last month. The attack by suspected Boko Haram extremists caused fresh outrage in Africa's most populous country and reminded many of Boko Haram's abduction of 276 schoolgirls from Chibok in 2014. Amnesty International on Tuesday cited sources including security officials and witnesses who said military and police received at least five calls in the hours before the attack. The rights group said no lessons had been learned from Chibok and urged Nigeria's government to make public its investigation into the new attack in Dapchi town. Nigeria's acting director of defense information John Agim says no security force was informed of the mass abduction. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  