Unathi Obose Caption: Police officers on the scene while two bodies of taxi drivers lay on the ground at Langa taxi rank.PHOTO: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police are still investigating a case of murder after a group of unknown people opened fire arm at Langa taxi rank last Thursday. Police spokeswoman Captain Nondumiso said two taxi drivers died on the scene and nine commuters injured. “There was no arrest yet. The reason for the shooting was that Cata members were fighting over the Langa-Athlone route,”said Captain Paul. She said the police are investigating a case of attempted murder. However, she emphasised that the only arrest that was made was in connection of the killing of Anda Dubayo,40, who was shot and killed near taxi rank in Washington Street last month. “A 63 year old man was arrested in connection with his killing and he will appear at Bishop Lavis Magistrate Court next week Tuesday for murder case,” said Paul. Cata public relations officer Andile Seyamo said the law must take its course. He said the incident was uncalled for and a disgrace to the taxi industry. He confirmed that the shootings perpetrated by taxi drivers fighting over the route. “The fight was about the Langa - Athlone route and the intertownship route which includes Delft, Khayelitsha and other areas. It seems they breached their agreement,” he said. Speaking about the arrest in connection of Dubayo’s killings said as an association they are pleased by the progress done by the police in the case. “As an association we are embarrassed by this incident. And we are waiting for the court to rule on their judgment and if the suspect found guilty we will deregister and expel him from the organisation. Because he shows he is not business minded but he has other motives,” said Seyamo. He urged the government to install cameras in all taxi ranks to curb crime. One of the commuters who were at the taxi rank during the incident spoke on condition of anonymity, said everything happened so fast. “It was around eight in the morning. I was on the queue to Claremont. “Suddenly, we heard gun shots coming all sides. The attackers were coming from the side of the flats (hostels) others between the food containers firing shots. “Everyone ran for cover. After few minutes they stopped and left,” he said. MEC of Transport and Public Works, Donald Grant’s spokesperson Siphesihle Dube said as the provincial government condemns the violent attack that threatened the safety of innocent commuters and resulted in serious injury and the loss of life. “It also threatens to disrupt public transport even further which is already under severe strain. Together with the SAPS, the City and the National Prosecuting Authority we have also established an Intergovernmental Task Team to get to the root causes of the ongoing conflict and address these effectively,” said Dube. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  