Malusi Gigaba Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Stefanie de Saude-Darbandi The fallout
from Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba awarding citizenship status to the
controversial Gupta family is but a small taste of the misery that his
department inflicts on thousands upon thousands of immigrants and residents
every year. And while
there is a concerted effort to correct the perceived wrongs regarding this
single family, the truth is that Home Affairs fails spectacularly in its
constitutional duties on a consistent basis, negatively affecting tens of
thousands of law-abiding people every year. A week
to forget In an
extraordinary week, the nation saw Minister Gigaba first deny that Atul and
Ajay Gupta were granted South African citizenship before Home Affairs
director-general Mkuseli Apleni clarified that both brothers had been
naturalised as far back as 2002 and 2006 respectively. The
controversial family’s citizenship was previously awarded under unspecified
"exceptional circumstances", though it was reported in 2017 that the
family did not meet the prescribed requirements. The director-general
reiterated earlier in March that the decision to grant early naturalisation to
the Guptas was consistent with their exceptional circumstances as owners of
businesses that employed many people. Minister
Gigaba has now sought the advice of President Cyril Ramaphosa to revoke Ajay Gupta's
permanent residency. However,
while he dithers on the Guptas, the lives of tens of thousands of people hang
in the balance as a direct result of his department's inefficient, uncaring and
even illegal conduct. The
great injustice of Home Affairs' failure Right now,
as the minister fights for his political survival, thousands of stories of
wrongfully denied immigrants are playing out across the country. Stories such
as that of the Mulowayis, a family from the Democratic Republic of Congo who
have had to renounce their citizenship to their home country as per Home
Affairs' instructions only to have their applications for South African citizenship
denied for no discernible reason. One of the
Mulowayis' children is currently stateless, and according to Home Affairs
ineligible to become a citizen under current laws. Thousands of children of
immigrants currently find themselves legally non-existent until Home Affairs
can show the leadership and efficiency to apply the law consistently and live
up to its constitutional mandate. Until then,
the Mulowayis - who work as doctors and teachers respectively - and thousands
like them will continue to be hampered in their efforts to contribute to our
country. In a single court case, our firm is representing more than 400
applicants who simply lack the knowledge of local law as well as the necessary
resources to challenge what is in essence unlawful findings by DHA. Compare
that to a family who have reportedly stolen billions of rands meant for
elevating millions of South African citizens out of poverty. DHA does
not care Many
immigrants qualify for temporary and permanent residency and citizenship but
still have to wait for years for their applications to be approved for no
apparent reason other than the DHA's inefficiency. Our firm works with many of the
frustrated foreigners who have jumped through every legal hoop to gain their
residency, and as a rule don't submit applications unless they comply and have
a fair expectation of being approved. Yet, we still experience wildly
inconsistent interpretations of the prevailing laws by Home Affairs officials. We urge the
minister to not let his department undermine our nation's prosperity. Home
Affairs is compounding the misery of thousands of ordinary, hard-working
immigrants who wish to contribute their skills and energy to the success and
prosperity of our nation. Your focus
should be on ensuring that your department can provide the essential service of
enabling skilled migrants to enjoy the constitutional protections and
privileges set out by the architects of our democracy. You need to
force your department to adhere to its own laws and regulations, and to work
tirelessly to serve the broader developmental agenda as set out by our national
leadership. You need to make sure the DHA lives up to its slogan: "We care." Right now, you are failing, and the DHA certainly doesn’t create the impression that it cares.- Stefanie de Saude-Darbandi is founder and director of De Saude Attorneys. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   