Earl Haupt @Earlhaupt The Breast Care Foundation handed over food parcels at Heideveld Clinic last week. From left: Jody Harrington, Vicky Chingeji, Ashwin Cornelius, Bernard Jacobs, Princess Mzukwa, Sasha-Lee Coetzee, Kashief Isaacs, Natalie Peterse, Lee-Ann Florence and Derrick Bent. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Breast Care Foundation visited Heideveld Clinic on Friday to hand over food parcels as part of their ongoing outreach programme­. The foundation has been helping cancer survivors, HIV patients, children’s homes, senior citizens and the abandoned and abused for the last four years. Breast Care Foundation CEO and founder, Lydia Alexander, says they first adopted Heideveld Clinic four and a half years ago when their nurses asked them if they could assist with food parcels on a more regular basis, since the clinic’s patients who are living with HIV need to take their ARV medication after meals. While some of the clinic’s 2000 patients receive a grant, others don’t and many are too ill to work. “We adopted them and give parcels every second month. We alternate their (patients’) names and we also give them clothing, blankets and support. We also adopted the HIV-affected youth and children (at the clinic). We do a talk with them every November where we also give them a treat,” says Alexander. This is one of the nine projects the foundation runs over the course of the year. “That is our focus until we get more funds so that we can adopt more patients, so they can live a better, healthier life. I want to thank the community, because most of our sponsors are the smaller businesses and even housewives. I want to thank the housewives who also help and support our cause,” she adds. She says that even if people are unable to donate cash to the organisation, they are welcome to donate non-perishable food, clothing and blankets (in good condition) in order for them to continue helping the patients. “As we grow, we are going to try to deliver our services at as many hospitals as possible. I am a cancer survivor myself, so this is close to me. I just want to help people who are going through the same thing,” she adds. The foundation conducted a back-to-school drive in January and also makes an ongoing effort to help women affected with breast cancer to be fitted with prosthetic breasts. “We also do the pickled fish drive for Easter for the destitute. We make the fish ourselves here at the office and we go out to give the people living on the streets some pickled fish and bread if we can’t get hot cross buns. We also make our own Easter eggs,” she adds. Alexander urges the community to get involved in their cause, where they will also reach out to those in need during winter with blankets and soup. “Please come on board and support us and the less fortunate. Together we can make a difference,” concludes Alexander.V For more information, call the Breast Care Foundation on 021 839 5005 or 021 699 0120 or send an email to breastcare.foundation29@gmail.com. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  