Jamey Gordon A Helderberg resident and partner in the fight against crime expressed concern for the safety of young women and warned of possible dangers, especially when socialising. This after the alleged gang rape of a 26-year-old woman in Gordon’s Bay. The sexual assault, which according to the resident who spoke on condition of anonymity, is not isolated and must be exposed. The resident said the young woman, believed to be from Gugulethu, was socialising at a local township tavern on Friday 9 March. The incident apparently occurred during the early hours of Saturday 10 March, after the woman left Umtata Lounge in Lwandle with a Nigerian man she met at the venue. He allegedly lured her away to his flat in Gordon’s Bay where the party was said to continue. They allegedly also left with alcohol purchased from the tavern. Lieutenant Colonel Xolani Williams, station commander of Lwandle police, has tried to eliminate illegal shebeens, brothels, drug dens and places housing foreign nationals without proper documentation. According to the resident, the woman claimed they joined several others at the flat where “the room started spinning” shortly after she was offered a drink. She allegedly blacked out and later awoke to a naked man penetrating her – this while several other naked men apparently surrounded them. “The woman claimed to have flashbacks of the traumatic ordeal during which she was restrained by two men while another sexually assaulted her. Alleged attempts to fight off her attackers failed. When he was done with her, another proceeded to forcefully rape her,” said the resident. The woman apparently managed to escape her attackers and approached a security guard on duty at the complex, who alerted the police. “Her cellphone was allegedly taken and the SIM card was damaged. Her clothes were torn as they tried to prevent her from leaving. They kept telling the security officer that she was drunk and didn’t know what she was talking about. The officer requested that the men back off.” Several used condoms were allegedly found at the scene. City Vision’s sister publication
 
  DistrictMail
 contacted the complex manager, who confirmed he is aware of the allegation, but claimed nothing came of the matter. Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, provincial police spokesperson, said the reported rape is under investigation and no suspects have been arrested. “Four men were apprehended and brought in for questioning but [were] released,” said Rwexana. The resident labelled the incident as “sick” as it left an innocent woman injured and in tremendous pain. “It destroyed her life. It infuriates me that there are sick men out there who treat woman like used rags. “Police response was swift. However, I feel not enough effort was made to handle the case as is expected. It is as though it is just another case.” . In a separate case of sexual assault reported in Macassar, Rwexana said a woman was raped in Walter Sisulu Street, Macassar Village at 03:30 on Tuesday 6 March. An 18-year-old man was arrested in connection with the alleged rape. “Circumstances surrounding both cases are under investigation and medical attention and counselling is being provided to the victims,” she said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  