At least '5 000 soldiers deployed to Zim rural areas ahead of vote', Mugabe ally claims – report Harare – A former army brigadier, who quit Zimbabwe's Zanu-PF ruling party early this month to protest the removal of former leader Robert Mugabe, has reportedly claimed that at least 5 000 soldiers have been deployed to rural areas ahead of elections in July. According to Daily News,Ambrose Mutinhiri, who recently formed a new political outfit, the National Patriotic Front (NPF), said this in his communique to the visiting SADC head of delegation, Leshele Thohlane. For more on this story click here 'We've returned the girls out of pity… don't ever put your daughters in school again,' Boko Haram warns Lagos - Boko Haram militants have issued an ominous warning to the parents of the Nigerian schoolgirls after releasing the girls in the town where they were abducted a month ago. A witness in the town of Dapchi tells The Associated Press that the fighters told residents they had returned the girls "out of pity". "And don't ever put your daughters in school again," they warned. Read more on this story here Mugabe 'now following in the footsteps of sell outs,' says Zanu-PF official – report Harare – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF lawmaker has reportedly warned former president Robert Mugabe, 94, that he risks losing his right to be buried at the National Heroes' Acre if he "continues dabbling in opposition politics". Mugabe was reportedly backing a newly formed political outfit led by Ambrose Mutinhiri, a former brigadier, who quit the ruling Zanu-PF party recently and formed the New Patriotic Front (NPF) party. Mutinhiri resigned from parliament, citing the military intervention that pressured Mugabe into stepping down in November as his reason for cutting ties with Zanu-PF. Read more on this story here Armed Zim police 'looted diamonds worth millions of dollars': Diamond firm Harare – A Zimbabwean diamond firm which was fingered by President Emmerson Mnangagwa for externalising millions of dollars has accused police of looting diamonds worth millions at its Marange diamond fields in 2016, Daily News reported. Mbada diamond was one of the hundreds of companies which were named by Mnangagwato have externalised funds during ex-president Robert Mugabe's reign. An AFP report said that Mbada Diamonds was accused of looting at least $14.7m. For more on this story click here 'I think US-Zim relations will be fantastic,' says envoy Harare – The United States ambassador to Zimbabwe, Harry Thomas, has reportedly said that his country is willing to assist the southern African country in growing its economy and creating jobs following the resignation of ex-president Robert Mugabe last year. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Thomas made the remarks as he was paying a courtesy visit to Zimbabwe’s deputy president Constantino Chiwenga this week. For more on this story click here The Latest: Number of freed Nigerian schoolgirls up to 104 Maiduguri - Nigeria's government now says 104 of the 110 schoolgirls abducted a month ago by Boko Haram are confirmed freed. One 14-year-old released by the fighters has told reporters that five of the girls had died. She did not provide other details and it was not immediately possible to independently verify her claim. Another of the freed girls has said a Christian classmate remained captive. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  