Tammy Petersen Detective Sergeant Granville Brooks and Charmaine Goliath pose in this image. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - A detective sergeant used a police firearm to kill his girlfriend and her mother before committing suicide in Mitchells Plain on Thursday - despite one being taken from him during a domestic violence incident at the house the night before. This was confirmed by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, which is investigating the incident. IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the police watchdog was investigating which gun had been used during the murders, saying it would form part of the probe. READ: Cop threatened to kill girlfriend, mom night before hostage drama - neighbour Granville Brooks, 41, killed his girlfriend Charmaine Goliath, 27, and her mother Susan, 54, before turning the gun on himself following a hostage situation in the Goliath family's Begonia Street, Lenteguer home. Brooks, a married man, is understood to have been found dead in a bedroom with a gunshot wound to the head. Susan's body was also discovered in a bedroom, also with a head wound. Domestic violence Charmaine was found in the lounge with a gunshot wound to the chest. Brooks had also apparently shot at a woman who lived in the Goliath's backyard, as well as at a relative who had tried to enter the house. On Wednesday night, a neighbour said police had responded to a domestic violence incident at the house after Brooks assaulted Charmaine by choking her. The woman said police had to escort Brooks out of the house after initially asking him to leave. "He said: 'Dit maak nie saak as jy vir my nou gaan vat nie. Ek kom môre terug dan skiet ek vir haar en haar ma' [It doesn't matter if you take me away now. I am coming back tomorrow and then I am going to shoot her and her mother]. One policeman said 'wow'," the woman told News24 at the scene on Thursday. Charmaine had apparently broken things off with Brooks on Wednesday. The friend claimed he had assaulted her and held a gun to her head in the past. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  