David Warner. (Getty) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Vicki Momberg's jail sentence is a historic and important moment for South Africa, writes Adriaan Basson, Steve Smith and opener David Warner have been banned for 12 months for their roles in the ball-tampering and Blade Nzimande warns motorists about road safety ahead of the Easter weekend. Here are some of our top reads for the day: Huge petrol price hike to kick in next Wednesday The price of 95 unleaded and leaded petrol in Gauteng will increase by 72c/l and at the coast 62c/l with effect from next Wednesday, says the Department of Energy.  PA and DA sign pact ahead of Trollip no confidence vote The Patriotic Alliance has officially signed coalition and co-governance agreements with the Democratic Alliance in Nelson Mandela Bay, ahead of the upcoming council meeting in which mayor Athol Trollip faces another vote of no confidence. Court battle implicates ANC secretary general Magashule in daughter's R150m RDP contracts Details of how outgoing Free State premier Ace Magashule meddled in a R150m project that ended up on the books of his daughter's company have been revealed in a court case. SCA dismisses Gigaba's appeal against Oppenheimers' VIP terminal Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba's application for leave to appeal a judgment that a company owned by the Oppenheimer family operate a private VIP terminal at OR Tambo International Airport has been dismissed with costs. Nowhere to hide for racists like Vicki Momberg anymore The two-year jail sentence handed down to former estate agent Vicki Momberg for her racist outburst towards a black policeman in 2016 is a historic and important moment for South Africa. WATCH: How to keep safe on the roads this Easter weekend Easter weekend has a bleak road safety history – every year, a new safety campaign is launched, and every year, the death toll remains horrific.  SA Reserve Bank cuts interest rates The monetary policy committee of the SA Reserve Bank has decided to cut interest rates by 25 basis points. CONFIRMED: Warner the man behind #SandpaperGate Cricket Australia's findings have confirmed that David Warner - and not Steve Smith - was the mastermind behind the plan to tamper with the ball at Newlands. Smith, Warner banned for 12 months Australian skipper Steve Smith and opener David Warner have been banned for 12 months for their roles in the ball-tampering scandal that rocked the third Test against the Proteas at Newlands last weekend. 'Mugabe shouldn't cry foul, he's a victim of a monster he created,' says rights activist A Zimbabwean pro-democracy activist says it is a "myth" that the military only took over the southern African country's ruling party in 2017. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  