While all surgeries have risks, these procedures are delicate and can be dangerous. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories $15bn diamond scandal: Zim parliament to summon Mugabe? Harare - A member of parliament in Zimbabwe says he wants parliament to summon former president Robert Mugabe to explain where $15 billion worth of diamond revenue went to during his rule, according to a report. Temba Mliswa, a former ruling party MP turned independent, chairs a parliamentary committee on mines that has been probing diamond mining in Zimbabwe’s once-booming eastern Chiadzwa diamond fields. For more on this story click here Evicted villagers demand apology from 'cruel' Grace Mugabe - Report Harare - Villagers who had their homes and crops destroyed by police acting on behalf of Zimbabwe’s former first lady Grace Mugabe want an apology, says an online report. The villagers of Manzou farm in Mazowe, north of Harare, were evicted by armed police in a series of operations launched in January 2015. The farm was allocated to Grace Mugabe, the wife of former president Robert Mugabe. He was forced to step down last November. Read more on this story here US sanctions blow for Mnangagwa... Trump says Harare 'still a threat' – reports Harare – US President Donald Trump has reportedly "extended sanctions against Zimbabwe for another year", saying that President Emmerson Mnangagwa's administration "remained a threat to Washington's foreign policy". According to Voice of America (VOA), the extension was made in a notice signed by Trump on Friday. The notice stressed that the situation in Zimbabwe had not yet transformed following the removal of former president Robert Mugabe from power. President Mnangagwa, some army generals and others, who participated in the unseating of Mugabe last year, were under targeted sanctions for alleged human rights abuses and election rigging, VOA said. Read more on this story here New party forms in Zimbabwe with Mugabe's backing Harare - A former army brigadier who quit Zimbabwe's ruling party to protest the removal of former leader Robert Mugabe has formed a new political party. Ambrose Mutinhiri, a veteran of the 1970s war against white minority rule, met Mugabe on Sunday before announcing he had formed an opposition party named the National Patriotic Front. Mutinhiri had resigned from parliament last week, citing the military intervention that pressured 94-year-old Mugabe into stepping down in November as his reason for cutting ties with the ruling Zanu-PF party. For more on this story click here Egypt president's opponent organises rally, no one shows up Cairo - The sole candidate running against Egypt's President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi in this month's national election has attempted to organise a rally, but no one showed up. About a dozen workers from the campaign of Moussa Mustafa Moussa carried posters of him about 100m in downtown Cairo on Sunday, stopping well short of the end of their planned march. At least twice as many photographers and cameramen from state and private media documented the march. Sisi is virtually certain to win re-election in the March 26-28 vote, after a string of would-be contenders withdrew under pressure or were arrested. For more on this story click here Brain surgery mishap: Over 500 Kenyan doctors down tools, demand reinstatement of colleague Nairobi – Over 500 senior doctors at Kenya's biggest referral hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital, have reportedly downed their tools in protest against the suspension of their colleague, who performed a brain surgery on the wrong patient. A BBC report said on Monday that the chairperson of the doctors' union, Sammy Oroko, maintained that the suspension of the neurosurgeon was a "knee jerk reaction which will not solve the underlying problems at the hospital". For more on this story click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  