Mahlohonolo Magadla PHOTO: Screenshot from video Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  A
video of a home affairs official being pre-occupied with social media instead
of helping a citizen has emerged on Facebook. In
the video, which has since gone viral, the official, who is wearing a black home
affairs T-shirt, can be seen distractedly checking a passport while focusing on
her phone where a Facebook feed is open. The
official eventually completely focuses on scrolling through her Facebook feed and
clumsily drops the passport. The
minister of home affairs, Malusi Gigaba, retweeted the video and said he’d
asked his department to investigate the matter and take action against the
official. I was this morning informed about the  video circulating on social media platforms, and have asked the Department of @HomeAffairsSA to investigate this matter and take swift action against the official. pic.twitter.com/ZwllSemEyZ   In
a media statement the department of home affairs identified the official and
confirmed she was stationed at the Beitbridge port of entry. The
department also stated the official would be subjected to internal disciplinary
processes since their policy prohibits the usage of cellphones by front
officials while performing their duties. “The
official has been identified and she’ll be subjected to internal disciplinary
processes. Further to this disciplinary measures have commenced against the
three supervisors on the shift for lack of adequate supervision.” The
director general of home affairs, Mkuseli Apleni, has also expressed his
displeasure at the incident. “Of
major concern to me is the fact the official is dealing with security documents
without paying attention to detail and rather preoccupied with her cellphone .
. .” he said. Watch
the video, which was shared by Intelligence Bureau, below     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.