Unathi Obose Sithembiso Maweza’s family members and relatives converged at his grandmothers house in K Section in Site B. From left: Nonzaliseko Dyan (red Tshirt), Nomhle Mdudu, Nomabandla Mdudu, Sithembiso’s grandmother Nokwezi Mdudu and Sithembiso’s mother Funeka MdlankomoPHOTO: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Mdudu family in K Section in Site B is appealing to the community for help to to assist with the funeral of their son after he perished in a shack fire on Sunday. Sithembiso Maweza,27, together with his one-year-old daughter Lithalethu Gcolothele, died in the shack fire, which also almost claimed the life of Lithalethu’s mother, Aphiwe Gcolothele. Gcolothele,27, suffered burns all over her body, but is recovering in hospital Funeka Mdlankomo, the late man’s mother, said she works as a cleaner. “I don’t know what to do as my job is not stable. But my wish is to bury him in his ancestral land in Mthatha in the Eastern Cape. But, as family we are going to meet and discuss the funeral arrangements,” she said. Mdlankomo explained that she last saw her son hours before he died. Cape Town Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson Theo Layne said about 25 residential structures were destroyed in the blaze, leaving 125 persons displaced. Nokwezi Mdudo, Mawezas grandmother, ‘peaking for the family, said she was awoken by Maweza’s mother early in the morning, telling her about the fire. “She was crying, shouting that Sithembiso’s home was burning and she couldn’t locate him,” said Mdudo. When the family went over to the informal settlement, less than 200 metres away, they saw the blaze. “At the time the fire was very strong. The whole shack was burning. We searched for him, and only when the fire was out did we see the remains. It was both him and his daughter,” said Mdudo. The previous night Maweza had visited his family, and spent some time with his cousins. He later met up with his girlfriend, and the couple went to sleep at his home. The dead man’s family said they were struggling to deal with the loss. His mother struggled to speak. “When we think of how he was with all of us, it seems as if he was here to bid us goodbye. He was so happy and full of life. “For him to die like this, so unexpectedly, is a shock. “How does one begin to accept two deaths of such young people?” she asked. Ward 93 councillor Thando Phimpi said the absence of water and sanitation had contributed to the rapid spread of the fire. The cause of the fire was not yet known. Khayelitsha police station communications officer Captain Rajap confirmed the incident said two people died and one seriously injured in a shack fire. “A man, 27, and a one year daughter died in a shack fire.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  