Iavan Pijoos (Screenshot taken from video) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – A man was shot and killed by security guards during a cash-in-transit heist attempt near Multichoice's Randburg offices on Tuesday morning. Captain Mavela Masondo said around seven heavily armed men attempted to rob the cash-in-transit vehicle at a business premise. "Preliminary reports indicate that a security cash truck was robbed of an undisclosed amount of cash and unconfirmed commodities in Johannesburg West, leading to a shootout between the alleged robbers and the security detail that was escorting the cash truck. One suspect was fatally wounded," Masondo said. The group managed to escape. Several firearms and ammunition, along with three vehicles were recovered. "Another vehicle was also recovered at Randparkridge, Honeydew and is believed to have been hijacked and later abandoned by the suspects after the robbery," Masondo said. According to an eyewitness who asked not to be named, the group tried to rob the occupants of a white vehicle. "They tried to rob the... van [of] money and then there was a shooting. It was horrible," the witness told News24. The witness added that one of the suspects was shot before being dragged back into a getaway car. ALSO WATCH: Robbers blow up G4S van on N4 in Pretoria In a video doing the rounds on social media, a man dressed in a black shirt and shorts, with a balaclava over his head, can be seen standing next to a white bakkie, while firing shots at what is believed to be security officers. The man collapses while attempting to get into a moving white Ford Fiesta. The car then reverses and one of the men pulls his body into the car. WATCH VIDEO HERE:  Netcare911 spokesperson Tebogo Magoro confirmed to News24 earlier that one of the suspects was shot and killed. "Reports from the scene indicate that this was an attempted cash-in-transit heist, shots were fired between the two parties leaving one suspect in his 30s with fatal injuries. "The armed robbers abandoned two of the vehicles they were travelling in, in close proximity to the scene. Leaving the deceased suspect in one of the cars before hijacking another vehicle and fleeing the scene. The driver of the hijacked vehicle was female and thankfully not injured," Magoro said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  