Listeria outbreak: Zim tightens food surveillance at border posts, as it bans imports of cold meat from SA Harare – Zimbabwe has reportedly banned the importation of cold meat from South Africa following the outbreak of Listeria. This came following reports that four other countries in southern Africa had also taken steps on Monday against importation of South African chilled meat made at a factory found to be the origin of the world's worst-ever listeria outbreak. Mozambique and Namibia announced they were immediately suspending imports of the products. Botswana said it was recalling the items "with immediate effect", while Zambia called on South African retail chains in its country to pull the incriminated goods from local shelves. Read more on this story here 'Top ruling Zanu-PF party official quits to lead pro-Mugabe splinter group': reports Harare - A new party linked to loyalists of former president Robert Mugabe is likely to be led by a top Zanu-PF official who quit last week, reports from Zimbabwe say. Former cabinet minister and member of parliament Ambrose Mutinhiri quit the ruling Zanu-PF party last week citing his objection to the "military coup" that removed Mugabe from power in November. He is the first big name to leave Zanu-PF since the military takeover that replaced Mugabe with Emmerson Mnangagwa. Read more on this story here Kenya bans SA meat products as listeria scare spreads Nairobi - Kenya's health ministry on Tuesday announced a ban on the import and sale of certain South African processed meat products after a listeria outbreak that has killed at least 180 people. Kenya is the first nation in east Africa to ban ready-to-eat meat products from South Africa that include polony - sliced ham and Frankfurter-style sausages. "In order to ensure the health of the public is protected and as a precautionary measure you are required to stop the importation and sale of these products" and recall those already on sale, the health ministry wrote in a note to country health officers. For more on this story click here PICS: Teacher 'hailed for drawing computer screen on chalkboard to teach MS Word… Microsoft pledges to help' Accra – An innovative Ghanaian teacher has become a social media sensation after pictures of him drawing features of a Microsoft Word processing window on a chalkboard - to demonstrate to his students - went viral. In some of the pictures that went viral, his students could also be seen drawing the window in their books. According to This is Africa.com, Okwura Kwadwo had no computer to demonstrate Microsoft Word to his students, so he drew it on the chalkboard. Read more on this story here Mnangagwa congratulates MDC's Chamisa Harare – Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly congratulated his rival Nelson Chamisa, following his appointment as the presidential candidate for the Movement Democratic Change (MDC) Alliance in the forthcoming elections. The MDC Alliance was an electoral bloc formed by eight political parties in Zimbabwe on August 06, 2017. Most of the member parties were splinters from the original Movement for Democratic Change and each other. The bloc was formed to contest the 2018 election. For more on this story click here Mugabe 'has 21 farms... he leases some to white farmers' - reports Harare - Zimbabwean ex-president Robert Mugabe owns 21 farms in the southern African country, a source has revealed, according to the state-owned Herald newspaper. The source was quoted by the newspaper as saying that Mugabe amassed the 21 farms during his reign as president of Zimbabwe, and was likely going to be "forced to surrender some of them". The source also revealed that the former president had leased some of his farms to white farmers, in a move that was viewed as being "hypocritical" of his rhetoric. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  