(Somizi Instagram Page) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - White monopoly capital behind NPA decision to prosecute Jacob Zuma his son Edward says, Tiger Brands puts costs of listeria precautions at hundreds of millions of rands and what is the minimum wage for domestic workers and nannies 2018?Here are some of today’s top stories: Gupta properties seized, brothers summoned by Indian tax officials - reports Indian revenue authorities have reportedly attached numerous properties owned by the Gupta brothers Atul, Ajay and Rajesh, as South African law enforcement agencies still struggle to ensure the family accounts for its role in state capture. White monopoly capital behind NPA decision to prosecute JZ - Edward Zuma The son of former president Jacob Zuma has lambasted the National Prosecuting Authority's (NPA's) decision to prosecute his father, saying that white monopoly capital is behind the move. Court orders Guptas' jet to be grounded The South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg ruled on Monday that a Bombadier Global 6000 aircraft, which the Gupta family was leasing, must be handed over to the applicants and stored at Lanseria Airport in Johannesburg. Moseneke gives government 3 months to pay more than R1m each to Life Esidimeni families Former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke has given the South African government three months to compensate the families of those who died in the Life Esidimeni tragedy. Tiger Brands puts costs of listeria precautions at hundreds of millions of rands Tiger Brands has put the expected costs of recalling products by its subsidiary Enterprise Foods as a result of fears over the listeriosis outbreak at a minimum of R380m. Aussies to use Philander tweet in Cape Town The Proteas seamer tweeted that Australian captain Steve Smith was "just as guilty" as Kagiso Rabada following that 'shoulder brush' in the second Test that saw Rabada banned. Somizi confirms engagement! Local TV personality Somizi Mhlongo confirmed his reported engagement to Mohale Tebogo Motaung on Monday. It’s a Big YESSSSS. it’s a golden ticket. #MCM #MCE A post shared by  Somizi (@somizi) on Mar 18, 2018 at 10:14pm PDT  What is the minimum wage for domestic workers and nannies 2018? The minimum wage will only be valid until the new national minimum wage, as announced by president Cyril Ramaphosa last year, comes into effect on May 1. How investigative journalists helped turn the tide against corruption Every year South African investigative journalists are recognised for their hard work when the winners of the Taco Kuiper Award for Investigative Journalism are announced. This year has provided a chance to assess the highs and the lows of our investigative reporting after an extraordinary year. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  