Alex Mitchley DA leader Mmusi Maimane. (Deon Raath, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria – With the unveiling of a plaque commemorating the
144 people who lost their lives in the Life Esidimeni tragedy, DA leader Mmusi
Maimane has said the families of the victims will not get full closure until
those responsible are hauled before a judge. "For as long as the individuals who were responsible
for this crime against some of Gauteng's most vulnerable citizens remain in
their jobs and not in a courtroom, the families of the victims will never have
full closure," said Maimane at the Talisman Foundation in Johannesburg on
Wednesday. "And we know exactly who these individuals are." "The Moseneke Report goes into great detail setting out
the roles of former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, former Department of Health HOD
Dr Barney Selebano and former Director of Mental Health Dr Makgabo Manamela in
this tragedy. "They should be in prison." Accepting full responsibility The DA leader also said that the Gauteng Premier David
Makhura should face consequences. Maimane said that as premier, and in Makhura's own words,
the buck ultimately stops with him and he should also face consequences. Maimane said the DA has called for a Motion of No Confidence
in Premier Makhura because "if he can't do the honourable thing and
resign, then the members of the Gauteng legislature must do it for him". He said the arbitration report by former deputy chief
justice Dikgang Moseneke, released this week, in which he awarded R1.2 million
to each of the claimants, was a welcome step towards justice but that there was
still no closure yet. "Judge Moseneke states very clearly in his report that
the ball is now in SAPS's court to investigate speedily and institute the
necessary criminal charges. This is the only way true justice will be
served." "This is the ANC in Gauteng's opportunity to show that 'full
responsibility' means just that. Because the families of the Esidimeni victims
deserve a lot better than empty platitudes from those who brought about this
tragedy." Moseneke gave the government three months to compensate the
families. He slammed the government - Mahlangu, Selebano and Manamela
- for the manner in which they handled the Life Esidimeni project. Moseneke found that their decision to move the mental health
care patients was "irrational and unconstitutional".   Avoid repeating history Maimane said part of the purpose of Human Rights Day was to
avoid repeating history. "To look back on the terrible injustices of the past
and to remind ourselves of our important responsibility to ensure that these
injustices never, ever happen again," said Maimane. "Our country has a painful history, and we should be
more aware and more protective than most of our precious Human Rights. That's
what makes the Esidimeni tragedy so painful to accept. "It is shameful that this was allowed to happen at the
hands of government in our modern-day democracy. We now owe it to everyone who
lost a loved one in this tragedy to ensure that justice is done, and done
swiftly." A total of 144 psychiatric patients died after being moved
from Life Esidimeni to various unlicensed NGOs. Many of the families had not
been informed about the intention to move their loved ones. Some family members found their loved ones in mortuaries
and, in some cases, after post-mortems had been conducted, plastic and paper
had been found in their stomachs.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  