Zim's Mnangagwa in DRC... says 'President Kabila is a brother to me' Kinshasa – Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly briefed his Democratic Republic of Congo counterpart Joseph Kabila on the transition that led to the end of former president Robert Mugabe's rule last year. Mnangagwa came into power in November following a military intervention that forced Mugabe to step down. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Mnangagwa held a closed-door meeting in Kinshasa with Kabila. For more on this story here A seized Zimbabwe farm is returned, but uncertainty reigns Headlands - When the riot police arrived, Zimbabwean farmworker Mary Mhuriyengwe saw her life fall apart as her job and home disappeared in the ruthless land seizures that defined Robert Mugabe's rule. Mhuriyengwe, 35, watched as police carrying AK-47 rifles released teargas to force white farmer Robert Smart off his land in June 2017 - perhaps the last of 18 years of evictions that helped to trigger the country's economic collapse. A widow and mother of two, Mhuriyengwe relied on her work as a general labourer at Smart's Lesbury Estates farm in Headlands, 160km east of the capital Harare. Read more on this story here WATCH: Gukurahundi victims' hearings begin in Zimbabwe Harare - Public hearings have started into alleged atrocities committed in Zimbabwe more than 30 years ago during the rule of Robert Mugabe. It is claimed the former president ordered the deaths of people he believed were trying to depose him. But many feel the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission (NPRC) hearings, set up by Zimbabwe’s government, are a waste of time. For more on this story click here 'We won't allow a toddler to rule Zimbabwe,' chiefs say in reference to MDC's Chamisa Harare – Zimbabwean chiefs have reportedly thrown their weight behind the ruling Zanu-PF party, saying that they would not allow a "toddler" to rule the southern African country. Zimbabwe was expected to go to its first presidential elections without long-time rivals Robert Mugabe and the late Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader Morgan Tsvangirai. The elections were set to take place later this year, with President Emmerson Mnangagwa running as Zanu-PF's candidate. The MDC was likely to field in the youthful Nelson Chamisa, 40. Read more on this story here Chamisa to fight Zimbabwe polls for opposition party Harare - Zimbabwe's main opposition on Thursday named a former youth activist, Nelson Chamisa, as its candidate for upcoming presidential polls, the party's first major test since the death of its charismatic leader and the ouster of Robert Mugabe. Chamisa, 40, becomes the Movement for Democratic Change's electoral champion after veteran leader Morgan Tsvangirai died of cancer on February 14 at the age of 65. Tsvangirai embodied opposition to former president Mugabe whom the MDC accused of vote-rigging, voter intimidation and authoritarian behaviour. Read more on this story here Court seizes penthouses from Nigeria's former oil minister Lagos - A judge in Lagos on Wednesday ordered the confiscation of two multi-million-dollar penthouses in the latest seizure of assets linked to Nigeria's former oil minister. Diezani Alison-Madueke - who was also the first female president of OPEC - served under former president Goodluck Jonathan until 2015. She has been linked to a string of money laundering and bribery cases and investigations in several countries. Read more on this story here UK optimistic over Zim future, but wants a 'free,fair vote' London – Britain's foreign affairs minister Boris Johnson has reportedly expressed optimism over Zimbabwe's political future but has urged President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government to deliver "a free and fair election". Writing on his Twitter page this week, Johnson said that he was delighted to welcome Zimbabwe's finance minister Patrick Chinamasa in London. See his tweet below. Chinamasa was in London, leading a Zimbabwean delegation for engagement under Mnangagwa’s new theme: "Zimbabwe is open for business." For more on this story click  here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  