Nomzamo Yuku @Nomzamoyuku Maitland children learned about animal abuse on Friday 2 March. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The SPCA held an animal abuse awareness event at Maitland High School on Friday 2 March where children from the community were taught about caring for their pets. The awareness event was aimed at reducing the high numbers of stray animals due to negligence and mistreatment. SPCA representative, Lucille Boonzaaier, emphasised how children can look after their animals and the importance of reporting violence against animals in the community­. Boonzaaier condemned people attacking animals and throwing stones at them, as she said this results in animals running away from home. She also shared some information on various careers the learners can follow if they are interested in working with animals and told them about the work done by the SPCA. The children in attendance said they were inspired by the talk. Junior Ngxwana said the event was informative and highlighted things he had taken for granted about animals and that it had encouraged him to change his behaviour towards animals. Ngxwana said he owns a dog, which he cares about, but that he did not pay attention to any other dogs in the community. “Now I know I should ask my mom to report to the SPCA if there is an unknown dog roaming around. Animals need to belong somewhere like children and not be abused. I also learned about how to properly feed my dog and make sure it stays healthy.” He said he has seen dogs and cats living in the streets and felt sorry for them but never knew he could help them. Organiser Mariah Strachan says she decided to invite the SPCA to present the talk following several instances where she witnessed children mistreated stay animals and also not being informed about caring for their pets. “The awareness was of utmost importance after several occasions where kids have thrown stones at dogs in the street. Some kids are keen to go on a group visit to the SPCA to go see what they are doing and some want to go volunteer. One boy suggested getting Adventure Kids Club involved in raising funds for the SPCA.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  