(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Nairobi – Over 500 senior
doctors at Kenya's biggest referral hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital,
have reportedly downed their tools in protest against the suspension of their colleague,
who performed a brain surgery on the wrong patient. A BBC report said on Monday that
the chairperson of the doctors' union, Sammy Oroko, maintained that the suspension
of the neurosurgeon was a "knee jerk reaction which will not solve the
underlying problems at the hospital". Three other staff - the ward nurse, theatre receiving nurse and anaesthetist – had also been suspended, the report said. Reports
last week said that the neurosurgeon was suspended after performing a brain
surgery on the wrong patient. According
to Daily Nation, this was "one of the worst cases of
medical malpractice to become public at Kenyatta National Hospital". The report said that two men had
been wheeled into the hospital a week ago – one needed a surgery to remove a
blood clot in his brain "while the other only required nursing and
medication to heal a trauma swelling in his head". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. There was, however, "a horror
mix-up of tags", which resulted in the wrong man being wheeled into
theatre and his skull opened. Doctors only realised the mistake
hours into the surgery "when they discovered there was no blood clot in
the brain". A
report by the Standard newspaper said that the hospital had since
apologised for the "monumental blunder". The hospital said that it
had done all it could "to ensure the safety and well-being of the patient
in question", adding that it had suspended the doctor. But
according to The Star, the doctor’s colleagues had protested the
suspension, saying that the nurses who prepared the patient for surgery were
the ones at fault for wrongly labelling the two patients. "As unit colleagues, we
believe that while our friend may have exhibited some procedural shortcomings,
the surgery was done on the wrong patient mainly because of wrong patient
labelling by the ward staff," the doctors were quoted as saying at
the time. The doctor’s union wanted an overhaul of the hospital operations, including digitisation of the hospital’s booking systems and setting up more theatres. They said that the boycott was an opportunity to re-examine the entire system at the Kenyatta Hospital, BBC said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  