Mxolisi Mngadi Abalone (File, City of Cape Town) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Three men appeared at the Paarl Magistrate's Court on Monday for allegedly being in possession of illegally poached abalone worth R1.5m, the Hawks said. Cheswin David Isaacs, 28, Albert van Niekerk, 30 and Angelo Charles, 38, were remanded in custody and their case was postponed to March 12 for bail application. "The three men were arrested last Thursday by the Hawks in partnership with crime intelligence, the K9 unit as well as the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries for possession and transporting illegally poached abalone," Captain Philani Nkwalase told News24. He said the multi-disciplinary team had acted on information and intercepted two vehicles in Klapmuts as they headed towards Paarl on the R44 near the N1. "Members managed to confiscate almost 1011.8kg of poached abalone worth over R1.5m. Two vehicles have also been seized pending further investigations," he said. Mandrax Meanwhile, two men appeared in court for allegedly being in possession of Mandrax tablets worth R3.3m, said Nkwalase. Madala Ephraim Sigasa, 53, and Shadley Manuel, 26, were arrested in Kraaifontein, Cape Town, on Saturday, he said. Their case was postponed to Thursday, March 8, for bail application. Nkwalase said Sigasa and Manuel were arrested during an intelligence-driven operation by the Hawks' South African Narcotics Enforcement Bureau (Saneb) together with crime intelligence. "The operation led to the discovery of Mandrax tablets worth nearly R3.3m in Kraaifontein, Cape Town, on Saturday," he said. Nkwalase said their preliminary investigation revealed that the drugs were being transported by a truck from Gauteng to Cape Town. "The Hawks-led team spotted the truck off-loading boxes onto a private vehicle in Acacia Street in the Kraaifontein industrial area. Upon conducting a search, 73 packets were found, each containing 1 000 Mandrax tablets," he said. Sigasa and Manuel, who were driving the vehicles, were arrested on the spot, he added. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  