Democratic Alliance (DA) leaders, coalition partners and supporters gather outside Nelson Mandela Bay City Hall a day before the EFF's motion of no confidence in Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip. Jump to
                    bottom WATCH: Marlon Daniels will occupy deputy mayor post if council agrees to reinstate it - Trollip  ICYMI: Patriotic Alliance's Daniels offered mayor's position ahead of Trollip vote of no confidence In an apparent last-ditch effort to sway the Patriotic Alliance (PA) to vote with the opposition and remove the Democratic Alliance-led coalition in Nelson Mandela Bay, the PA was offered the position of mayor on Tuesday evening. Nelson Mandela Bay councillor Marlon Daniels confirmed to News24 on Wednesday morning that he had been approached and offered the position of mayor, after PA leader Gayton McKenzie declared that the party would support the DA-led coalition during the vote of no confidence on Thursday. UDM sticks to its guns ahead of Nelson Mandela Bay showdown The United Democratic Movement will continue to support an opposition-sponsored mayoral candidate in the Nelson Mandela Bay metro on Thursday, despite the odds swinging in favour of the DA's Athol Trollip. Trollip's chances of surviving the upcoming motion of no confidence against him were given a major boost on Tuesday evening when the Patriotic Alliance (PA) said it would back the embattled Democratic Alliance mayor. The PA's extra seat puts the current council split at 60 seats to 60. In the event of a tie, DA council speaker Jonathan Lawack will cast the deciding vote. Trollip says the DA's objective is to build a government that provides equal access to citizens and will turn townships into suburbs. "If the EFF wants to get rid of us for that, we will go back to the trenches," he says. Trollip says coalitions are difficult because they have different ideologies. In NMB they set up a coalition in two weeks, but the EFF wanted to steer clear of a coalition. "They said they wanted to choose the better of two devils." #NMB Mayor Athol #Trollip takes to the stage amid applause and cheers. #NMBCouncil @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/WE6khUtRvo Bhanga says they will not allow Malema to destroy their city. "We are going to meet him tomorrow. We are going to defeat him." #NoConfidence #NMBCouncil @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/a69MBdVEzP Bhanga: Malema's views are wrong and a poison to South Africa. #NMBCouncil @TeamNews24 Bhanga says Malema's "brand of hatred and hate speech must not be taught to our children." #NMBCouncilVote @TeamNews24 Bhanga says Julius Malema is the new Eugène Terre'Blanche, and they are going to teach him a lesson. "Julius Malema, you run your home, the ANC, you run the EFF, you do not run the DA." "Yes!" Shout the crowd. Bhanga says today was not a day for Athol #Trollip. "Today and tomorrow is going to be important, because we are going to teach Julius Malema a lesson. Not in the name of Nelson Mandela will people be based on the colour of their skin." #NMBCouncil @TeamNews24 Jump to
                top