THE Uitenhage SPCA has emerged victorious with recent rulings in favour of the association in two cruelty cases. This is thanks to the efforts and perseverance of the hard working inspector at the Uitenhage SPCA, Mariaan Wentzel. “While we understand that some might feel the punishment of the perpetrators is not adequate, the SPCA is happy with the successful prosecutions and justice achieved for the animals involved,” said Deirdre Swift, chairperson of the Uitenhage SPCA managing board. In the first case, the SPCA inspector was called to the Gamble area to assist with a puppy that had been stabbed. Apparently the puppy had been playing with another dog in the neighbour’s garden, as it usually did. “The owner of the home, who was at the time peeling potatoes, got upset and stabbed the puppy with her peeling knife. The puppy succumbed to its extensive injuries and died painfully,” said Swift. The owner was prosecuted for animal cruelty, found guilty, and sentenced to community service and 6 months of house arrest, as well as now having a criminal record. The second case involved two Border Collies. A concerned member of public reported to the SPCA that the Collies appeared to be in a very bad state of neglect and requested for the matter to be investigated urgently. “On our arrival, we were shocked at the scene. A pair of Collies was found, the male barely able to stand. The younger female was in a slightly better condition. “They had mouldy maggoty food in a bowl and a plastic swimming pool type container with dirty garbage filled water, supposedly for drinking. “The dogs were removed and taken to the vet. Despite it being late on a Saturday afternoon, Dr Mulder had no hesitation in responding to our emergency call to assist,” said Swift. The male Collie was immediately put on a drip owing to his emaciated condition. “It is highly likely that had he not received veterinary attention, he would have died. Tests were conducted and his condition was diagnosed as malnutrition,” said Swift. The court ordered that the owners surrender the Collies to the SPCA, be held liable for costs and would not be permitted to own an animal for a period of two years. “The two Border Collies were brought into the SPCA and after 2 months we are happy to report they have recovered, flourished and are in good health. All they need now are loving forever homes!” said Swift. The Uitenhage SPCA would like to thank all involved in these two success stories, those who brought it to their attention, the Public Prosecutor who handled the cases and Uitenhage Veterinary Clinic for their support, without whom these victories could not have been achieved. “We remain optimistic and believe that with the assistance and understanding of our legal counterparts, perpetrators of animal cruelty will finally feel the full might of the law,” said Swift. -HEILIE COMBRINCK 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  