Nkosinathi Dube R102 heading to KwaDukuza was blocked with stones and rubble during the protests.PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories PROTEST action which led to the closure of the N2 and the R102 near Groutville turned violent as protesters blockaded roads with burning tyres and trees on Tuesday morning. It is alleged that in Groutville the protest, which started on Monday afternoon, turned violent when a protester was shot in the leg and a security guard in the back by an unidentified person who was driving by on Monday night. Both victims were transported to hospital by IPSS Medical Rescue. It is believed that the protests are a result of poor service delivery. On Tuesday the communities of Ntshawini and Glenhills also took to the streets blocking roads with burning tyres demanding that KDM authorities come and address them. It is believed that these communities have not received electricity which has resulted in them protesting. Reports have also suggested that the electricity cuts by KDM are as a result of the recent overtime cuts by the municipality and that workers have embarked on a go slow leaving the electricity department control room allegedly closed. KwaDukuza Municipality has since issued a statement warning the public of the protests which they have claimed illegal. “KwaDukuza Local Municipality wishes to inform members of the public that there are on-going illegal protests within the municipality’s jurisdiction. This has caused forced closures of the R102 leading to the CDB from Groutville and the N2. “KwaDukuza Municipality’s Traffic and Crime Prevention teams have been deployed to the affected areas to manage the situation with the intention to disperse the crowds. These operations are being done working side-by-side with the SAPS. “The Public Order Policing unit has been called in to provide their services and expertise. We appeal to members of the public to rearrange their travelling routes until there are reports stating that the situation has calmed.” At the time of going to press the Stanger Weekly was unable to source additional information from KwaDukuza Municiplaity with regards to the protests, however a meeting was being convened at the time. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  