iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Nairobi – Medical officials linked to a brain surgery mix-up at
a Kenyan hospital last month have reportedly been allowed back to work. The Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) had
suspended a trainee surgeon, an anaesthetist and two nurses after performing a
brain surgery on the wrong patient. This was one of the worst cases of medical malpractice to become
public at the hospital, reports said. According to Kenya's Daily Nation newspaper, the
hospital's board on Thursday said it had since left investigations into the mishap to the Kenya Medical
Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDB). "Effective immediately, the
board will no longer engage in any disciplinary matters as we will leave it to
the KMPDB," said Mr Mark Bor, chairperson of the KNH board was quoted as
saying. This came after Medical Board Chair Prof George Magoha "called for their reinstatement, saying that due process will still be followed after the investigations are complete", the report said. Two men had
been wheeled into the hospital about two weeks ago week – one needed a
surgery to remove a blood clot in his brain "while the other only required
nursing and medication to heal a trauma swelling in his head". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. There was, however, "a horror
mix-up of tags", which resulted in the wrong man being wheeled into
theatre and his skull opened. Doctors only realised the mistake
hours into the surgery "when they discovered there was no blood clot in
the brain". Over 500 senior doctors had on Monday
downed their tools in protest against the supersession of their colleague. The doctors' union, Sammy Oroko, said at the time that the
suspension of the surgeon was a "knee jerk reaction which will not solve
the underlying problems at the hospital". The
doctor’s union wanted an overhaul of the hospital operations, including
digitisation of the hospital’s booking systems and setting up more theatres. They said that the boycott was an
opportunity to re-examine the entire system at the Kenyatta Hospital, BBC said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  