The matter involving the film, Inxeba (The Wound), has been postponed to March 28, which will be heard as an urgent application, the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria has ruled. In the meantime, the movie is allowed to be screened at cinemas with an 18SNL rating. Jump to
                    bottom #Inxeba: Dali Mpofu SC does not challenge as well as other parties. Judge Tuchten accepts the draft order and the matter has been postponed to March 28. @Team News24 The matter is called up. Budlender:"This is a matter involving a film that has been prevented from being screened in the movies. A draft order has been agreed upon that the matter be heard on March 28 as an urgent matter." #Inxeba -> The South African Screen Federation joins the legal fight in support of the film. Sasfed represents the majority of industry bodies pic.twitter.com/zgihAqHkoU #Inxeba: Judge Neil Tuchten arrives in court and makes announcements. He asks parties if they object having the media record proceedings. @Team News24 #Inxeba: The parties in the matter include the Film and Publications Appeal Tribunal, Film and Publication Board, Film and Publication Council, Man and Boy Foundation, Izinduna Zamakhosi, Ubuhle Bengule, the producers and distributors of Inxeba. @Team News24 #Inxeba: Court room 6G is packed ahead of the Inxeba matter being heard.@TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/lNsKvv5wpi #Inxeba: @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/GjE72sztih #Inxeba: The producers of the film, Inxeba (The Wound) will today ask the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria to overturn its pornography rating. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Utb0kTq4VW #Inxeba: All parties have arrived in court room 6G at the North Gauteng High Court where the Inxeba matter is being heard. @Team News24 Inxeba producers ask court to intervene in porn rating matter The producers of the film, Inxeba (The Wound), will on Tuesday ask the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria to overturn its porn rating. In a statement released by Mad Moth Communications, David Alex Wilson said the producers of the film, through their attorneys Webber Wentzel, filed an application on February 24 for an urgent interdict to overturn the reclassification of the film. The Film and Publication Board Appeals Tribunal overturned the original classification of 16LS and gave the film a rating of X18, classifying the film in the same category as hardcore pornography, Wilson said. The film, which is about a gay relationship set in the context of a Xhosa initiation ceremony, was pulled from cinemas after it was slapped with a X18 classification. ICYMI: SASF joins Inxeba producers in court challenge over porn rating The South African Screen Federation on Friday said it would be joining the producers of the film Inxeba when they approach the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria to get its porn rating overturned. "In a gross violation of the right to freedom of expression, the film is now effectively banned in the country after a decision that smacks of apartheid-era censorship," said SASF spokesperson Rehad Desai. In a statement, Mad Moth Communications' David Alex Wilson said the producers of the film, through their attorneys Webber Wentzel, had served a lawsuit on February 24 seeking an urgent interdict to overturn the reclassification of the film. The Film and Publication Board Appeals Tribunal overturned the original classification of the 16LS and gave the film a rating of X18, classifying it in the same category as hardcore porn, Wilson said. ICYMI:Film and Publication Board releases reasoning behind changing classification of Inxeba Earlier this month The Film and Publication Board's (FPB) Appeal Tribunal overturned the classification rating of 16LS given to the film Inxeba (The Wound) and gave it a rating of X18. This rating change means that the film can no longer be screened in local cinemas. The reasons for the ruling - which were not given at the time - were revealed by the South African organisation on Friday afternoon via a statement on their website. The producers of the film have expressed their disappointment at the ruling and their desire to fight it.  Jump to
                top