Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The appointment of Mamokgethi Phakeng as Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cape Town(UCT) represents the embracing of transformation of a higher education institution and gender equity that needs to be entrenched to bring more women in leadership in the public and private sector, the South African National Civic Organisation(SANCO) announced on Monday. “This is not an affirmative action appointment, but recognition of black excellence that has been overlooked, including the affirmation of a deserving academic, accomplished scholar and intellectual. Phakeng has worked hard to uplift herself while encouraging historically marginalised girl-children from our communities to excel in the field of mathematics,” emphasised SANCO national Spokesperson, Jabu Mahlangu in congratulating Phakedi on her appointment. Mahlangu said that the appointment puts the inspirational trend-setter in a position to do even more. He said that though Phakeng is going to need support across various sectors, interest groups and constituencies, her success will be judged by the extent to which she deepens transformation, removes barriers and create more opportunities for others. “We wish her success as she strives to make this a collaborative effort and shared vision to make UCT an African University that produces quality research required for the country and continent’s development,” he said The ANC also congratulated Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng on her new appointment. “We congratulate Professor Phakeng for being appointed as the new Vice Chancellor of the University of Cape Town. Professor Phakeng’s career has an extraordinary range, from an outstanding academic to long standing leader in the Higher education space to a fearless social activist which makes her the best candidate to take the University into the next epoch,” said ANC WC secretary Faiez Jacobs He said Professor Phakeng had already shown a clear understanding of what is at the core of UCT’s challenges, the tough balance between a commitment to create an elite African university whilst dealing squarely with perceptions of being elitist and an exclusive domain of a particular type of cultural capital. We are therefore confident that whilst at the helm of the University she will ensure that the University continues its rise in global rankings” he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  