The recent Listeriosis outbreak already claimed 180 lives in SA. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg
- Victims of the listeriosis outbreak, the world's worst outbreak
according to the World Health Organisation, will be invited to sue the owner of
the factory named as the source, a human rights lawyer said Sunday. Attorney
Richard Spoor confirmed that his firm would file a class action suit against
Tiger Brands whose facility was last weekend officially revealed to be the
origin of the listeria epidemic that has claimed 180 lives. He
predicted that, if the litigation is successful, damages of tens of millions of
dollars could be awarded to victims and the families of those killed. Since
January 2017, 948 people in the country have contracted listeriosis, a disease
caused by bacteria which can contaminate fresh food, notably meat. Several
countries across Africa have imposed restrictions on South African meat imports
in response to the crisis. Also read: ‘Not only polony’ plus other don’t-miss Listeriosis stories Health
officials say the source of the outbreak was an Enterprise Food plant, owned by
Tiger Brands, in Limpopo. The factory produced a popular
range of ready-to-eat chilled meats including polony and Vienna sausages. "(We
will) put together a class action on behalf of the victims," Spoor told
AFP. In
class actions, groups of people with a common grievance, or their surviving
relatives, can come together to bring a single lawsuit. Not all of those
affected are compelled to participate and some victims are expected to bring
their own legal action against Tiger Brands. "The
reasons for doing that are that the overwhelming majority of those affected by
this epidemic are poor people, they're widely distributed and there's an
enormous range of damages that people have suffered," Spoor added. Tiger
Brands chief executive Lawrence MacDougall told local media on Friday that
"we'll have to deal with (litigation) when we get to it, right now our
focus is on food safety". Read more here: Listeriosis: Class action looms after polony panic MacDougall
has previously claimed that "there is no direct link with the deaths to
our products". Spoor
said attorneys will work in partnership with US-based food safety law firm
Marler Clark to file an application in the coming weeks. He
said that the strain blamed by health officials for the lethal outbreak, ST6,
was common to nearly all of the victims tested and tied to contamination found
at the Tiger Brands-owned factory. "That
looks to us to be an overwhelmingly strong case, it's like a fingerprint -- or
the marks on a bullet fired from a gun," he said. "You're
certainly talking about (a settlement) of several hundred million rand (tens of
millions of dollars)," he claimed. Listeria
contamination can result in a flu-like illness, infection of the bloodstream
and, in severe cases, infection of the brain which can prove fatal.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  