Alex Mitchley The Hawks head offices. (Deaan Vivier, Gallo Images, Beeld) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria - Six suspects appeared in the Specialised
Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Monday after allegedly manipulating a
bursary system at the University of South Africa (Unisa) by creating ghost
students. According to the Hawks, a Unisa payroll administrator,
Thandie Esbie, created ghost students and defrauded the South African Agency
for Science and Technology (SAAST), under the administration of the National
Research Foundation of South Africa, to the tune of R1.7 million. Hawks spokesperson Captain Ndivhuwo Mulamu said the
syndicate has been operating with this modus operandi for the last two years. Group executive of corporate relations at the NRF, Dr
Beverley Damonse, said one of the accused had been an employee at the research
foundation, and allegedly defrauded the foundation by creating ghost workers at
the SAAST. This was uncovered by the SAAST after a forensic audit and the
matter was handed over the Hawks. The accused then resigned. Damonse said she did not know if the accused then started
working for Unisa. "On Friday last week the Hawks team paid a visit to the
university's main campus in Pretoria and arrested Esbie whilst the other five
syndicate members were picked up at their respective homes in and around
Pretoria," said Mulamu. "The six spent the weekend behind bars and on Monday
during their court appearance, they were granted bail." Esbie was granted R3 000 bail while Florence Skhosana,
Thembi Ndlovu, Matilda Mmotlana, Joy Skhosana and Clifford Banda were granted
R2 000 bail respectively. Gauteng Hawks head, Major General Prince Mokotedi, commended
the investigation team and declared that the Hawks will stand firm in fighting
corporate corruption. He said the public also have a responsibility to act against
any corrupt activities, and urged people to report any unlawful conduct to law
enforcement authorities. The matter has been postponed to May 16 for further
investigation. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  