Steve Smith. (AP Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The National Assembly will be in recess for 75 days after the ANC "pushed through" an amendment of Parliament's programme; racists still have plenty of places to hide, opines Charlene Naidoo; and perceptions of corruption in South Africa have deepened over the past two decades. Have a look at some of our top stories for today: State lines up 207 witnesses for Zuma trial The State has lined up arms deal critics, former SARS employees, auditors, Special Investigative Unit and Financial Intelligence Centre officials to testify in former president Jacob Zuma's corruption trial. Perceptions of corruption in SA have grown over last 20 years - IRR Perceptions of corruption in South Africa have deepened over the past two decades, the Institute for Race Relations says. Racists still have plenty of places to hide The majority of whites in South Africa may not be as the editor believes, racist. On the other hand, perhaps they just hide it better than they did in the past, writes Charlene Naidoo. ANC 'shuts down' National Assembly for 75 days The National Assembly will be in recess for 75 days, after the ANC "pushed through" an amendment of Parliament's programme to allow for a prolonged "constituency" period. WATCH: Capetonians show big love for first real rainfall After a severe dry spell, Cape Town had its first show of rain, coupled with thunder and lightning, on Wednesday.  Sobbing Smith takes 'full responsibility' for ball-tampering scandal Distraught former Australia cricket captain Steve Smith was in tears on Thursday as he accepted full responsibility for a ball-tampering scandal that has shaken the sport, saying he was devastated by his "big mistake". The scenes coming out of Australia on Thursday were a striking indication of just how seriously the cricketing public has taken the Newlands ball-tampering saga. Listeriosis: Class action suit against Tiger Brands, Enterprise launched in Johannesburg court A class action suit has been launched against Tiger Brands Tiger Brands and Enterprise Foods at the Johannesburg High Court over listeriosis. He's been paralysed for 22 years – now the same thing has happened to his brother 22 years ago life as adrenaline junkies Gawie and Attie Conradie knew it came crashing down when Gawie was paralysed by a hijacker's bullet. And in a cruel twist of fate Attie (51) recently had a cycling accident and was also left paralysed. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will have over 250 Armed Forces members at their wedding The Ministry of Defence has confirmed that Armed Forces units will provide ceremonial support at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s wedding. Zim govt to amend contentious electoral law – report Zimbabwe's justice minister has reportedly said that the country's "contentious electoral law" would likely be amended next month. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  