An application by Export Development Canada (EDC), the country's state-owned export-import bank, to ground a plane being used by the Gupta family is being heard in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Jump to
                    bottom Cook says they made it clear that the matter of urgency was contested. "You must first rule on urgency, before you can hear the merits," he says to Judge Kathree-Setiloane. Judge Kathree-Setiloane says this must be concluded today.  Advocate Owen Cook, for Oakbay Investments and Westdawn Investment, says the court should decide whether the matter is urgent or not before the merits of the application can be argued.  EDC's counsel, Advocate Alfred Cockrell, says the matter has been set down for one day and they're good to go to argue it responsibly to finish it in one day.  The application by Export Development Canada (EDC) to ground a plane owned by the Gupta family has gotten underway.  ALSO READ: The Guptas and the high altitude hijack The Guptas are well known for their alleged role in state capture in South Africa. But the #GuptaLeaks show how Gupta lieutenants allegedly went about capturing an Indian aviation company. Heritage Aviation is an Indian aviation company with no apparent direct links to the Guptas or South Africa. The company was formed in 2009, operating mostly chartered pilgrimage and temple tours from a small helipad in the unfortunately named town of Guptkashi. But the leaked Gupta emails show how its sole director, Rohit Mathur, was duped, browbeaten and eventually strong-armed into giving up control of Heritage to the Guptas.  ICYMI: Canadian bank's court bid to ground Gupta jet postponed The application by a Canadian bank, to ground a Gupta-owned airplane, has been postponed to Friday. The South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg was due to hear the urgent application by Export Development Canada (EDC), the country's state-owned export-import bank, to ground a plane being used by the Gupta family. However, the matter was referred to Deputy Judge President Phineas Mojapelo for a special allocation and it is now expected to be heard on Friday. It was reported at the weekend that the controversial Gupta family had defaulted on a $41m loan for the jet, and EDC believes the plane might be used to evade justice or for other unlawful means.  ICYMI: Canadian bank’s application to ground Gupta jet expected to be heard on Tuesday – report An application by Export Development Canada (EDC), the country’s state-owned export-import bank to ground a plane being used by the Gupta family is expected to be heard in Johannesburg this week, the Washington Post reported. Concerning Ajay Gupta being declared a fugitive, the EDC reportedly argued in its court papers that there was a concern that the aircraft may be used to escape justice or for some other unlawful means. The family bought the aircraft with help from a $41m loan from the EDC. They have reportedly defaulted on that loan. The family's lawyer Ahmed Gani declined to comment to News24 on the application, and the UK branch of law firm Jones Day, who are apparently representing the family in the case involving the jet, could not be immediately reached for comment.  WATCH: The 'Zupta' timeline: Gupta jet travels to India  ICYMI: Gupta jet lands in Russia Where in the world are the Guptas? In Russia it would appear, if the flight radar of their private jet ZS-OAK is anything to go by. The Guptas may have had to fly commercial airlines for a month when their jet was apparently grounded over the festive season, but it wasn't long before their private wings were flying high again. The Gupta family's private jet, a Bombardier Global 6000 business aircraft registered as ZS-OAK, flew from Dubai to Zurich on December 13, where it remained for six days before taking a 36-minute hop to EuroAirport Basel Mulhouse Freiburg in Switzerland. There the plane stayed put for more than a month before taking to the skies again on January 25. It was widely reported in December that the Guptas had fallen behind in their scheduled repayments of a loan that financed ZS-OAK.  ICYMI: Around the world in 11 days with high-flying Guptas It could be pure coincidence. The Gupta family’s private jet, a Bombardier Global 6 000 business aircraft registered as ZS-OAK, touched down in London on Wednesday last week. The next day, their former London-based public relations firm Bell Pottinger issued an "unequivocal" mea culpa for the racially divisive spin they had assisted the Guptas and President Jacob Zuma’s son, Duduzane, with. It is not known who was aboard ZS-OAK when the plane touched down at London’s Stansted Airport on July 5.  Jump to
                top