Jenni Evans Wynberg Magistrate's Court. (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Photographs of Constantia murder accused Rob Packham may not be published because an identity parade has not yet been held, the Wynberg Magistrate's Court ruled on Friday. "The face of the accused, either [should not be] recorded, or [it should be] blocked for the purposes of reporting or news purposes, until the State has [concluded] that part of its investigation," Magistrate Goolam Bawa said. The ruling came after some media houses applied for permission to record the court proceedings. Bawa permitted recording, but said that Packham's face could not be shown and that his face must be blocked out where pictures of him already exist. Packham, 57, is accused of the murder of his wife Gill, as well as defeating the ends of justice and destroying evidence relating to her death, following her disappearance on February 22. Gill Packham's burnt body was found in the boot of a burnt-out vehicle at the Diep River train station two weeks ago. The 57-year-old mother was identified through forensic DNA comparison. Her husband is a general manager at cooldrink manufacturer Twizza's Cape-based plant. At the accused's appearance on Monday, Bawa ordered that he be held at Pollsmoor Prison while the schedule of the offences he is alleged to have committed is determined. He was arrested on February 27 - the same day his wife's remains were identified. However, his identity was kept under wraps at the time. READ: Constantia man weeps during first appearance for wife's murder Gill was an administrator at Springfield Convent School in Wynberg and was last seen leaving her home in Constantia in her green BMW Sedan. A relative reported her missing on the same day and the Pink Ladies organisation put out a missing persons alert for her.   Her car was later discovered and her burnt body was in the boot. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  