Jenna Etheridge SANDF troops in Qunu. (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – The South African National Defence Force (SANDF) has shot down accusations that it has not been co-operating with United Nations investigations into allegations of abuse by peacekeepers in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). On Thursday, the SANDF described the accusations as "disturbing and disconcerting". "In view of these [allegations] having surfaced, the SANDF swiftly moved to send its legal officers and investigators to the mission area to deal with the efficacy of such reports," SANDF spokesperson Brigadier General Mafi Mgobozi said. ALSO READ: South African peacekeepers in DR Congo face paternity claims - UN "Once again, it must be noted that these investigations are being conducted in close liaison with the United Nations office in the Democratic Republic of the Congo." Earlier this week, reports emerged of sexual exploitation and abuse, involving five South African military members in the DRC, which allegedly occurred between 2014 and 2016. There were paternity and child support claims in all five cases, according to a transcript of a media briefing on Monday by Stéphane Dujarric, spokesperson for UN secretary general António Guterres. One case involved the alleged sexual abuse of a minor, who is now an adult. 'Presently under investigation' Dujarric suggested that the SA government previously rejected their request for a joint investigation into the allegations, and added that they expect a similar response this time around. AFP reported that the latest allegations surfaced a month after SA troops were accused of sexually exploiting women in North Kivu, and beating a teenager in the Kasai region. About 1 300 SA soldiers were deployed in the eastern DRC as part of a UN intervention brigade, according to the report. ALSO READ: UN peacekeepers from Ghana recalled over sex with S Sudan women Mgobozi said these reports suggested there were new allegations which had surfaced, "when in actual fact these incidents being referred to occurred a while back". "They are presently under investigation and will be concluded as quickly as required by the UN. The investigating team that is currently in the DRC is also mandated to investigate any such incidences that have surfaced beyond 2016. "Due to the extent of the investigations and the seriousness of the allegations the team has requested an extension of its deadline to be able to ensure justice is done to the alleged victims and the alleged perpetrators and a new time frame is therefore being finalised." SANDF chief General Solly Shoke emphasised that ill-discipline and criminal behaviour would not be tolerated. Those found to have transgressed the code of conduct and the military disciplinary code would be dealt with "without fear of favour". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  