(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Leaders of the two most heavily armed towns in western Libya met on Wednesday for the first time since they fought for control of Tripoli four years ago, hailing the reconciliation talks "historic". The towns of Misrata and Zintan were among the first to rise up against the regime of dictator Moammar Gaddafi who was killed in 2011. The rebels had taken control of the capital in the summer of 2011 two months before Gaddafi was caught in his hometown of Sirte. They shared strategic sites in Tripoli until 2014 when a coalition led by Misrata forced out the Zintanis after weeks of bloodshed. Leaders of the armed groups and dignitaries from Misrata travelled to Zintan, 170km southeast of Tripoli, for a meeting that a final statement declared "historic". "This meeting is a first step which will be followed by others," said Zintan mayor Mustafa al-Barouni at the start of the discussions. "There will no longer be recourse to arms to settle our differences," he vowed. Ahead of the next meeting due to take place in Misrata, 200kms east of Tripoli, the two sides agreed to set up a committee to look into the main issues, such as the fate of prisoners and those who have disappeared. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by
subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Mohamad Rajab, head of Misrata's military council, said Wednesday's first session would facilitate "reconciliation with other regions and tribes". Their statement said both sides stressed the need to bring the army and police under a civilian authority and to fight terrorism. Libya has been gripped by chaos since a NATO-backed uprising toppled Gaddafi, with rival administrations and multiple militias vying for control of the oil-rich country. Today a national unity government in Tripoli, which has international recognition, faces a rival authority supported by Khalifa Hafter in the east. Khalifa is accused by Misrata of seeking to set up a new military dictatorship in Libya. Jihadists and people-traffickers have taken advantage of the chaos to gain a foothold in the North African country. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  