Mahlatse Mahlase Mzwandile Masina (Daily Sun) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina has identified at least
four properties, three of them privately owned, that he wants to expropriate without
compensation. Masina said he wanted Ekurhuleni to be the first metro in
Gauteng to expropriate land without compensation, with the land expected to
be used to establish new townships. He announced on Thursday that the Ekurhuleni council had resolved
to initiate the process. "The City of Ekurhuleni has identified four occupied
properties, whose owners have essentially relinquished their property ownership
rights and responsibilities. The City plans to immediately develop and
establish townships on these pieces of land," Masina said in a statement. The decision was taken "in order to serve public
interest and that the City has to act immediately to deal with its housing
challenges", he said. "It is important to note that expropriation can never be
a means to an end, but it has to inherently serve a particular purpose of
interest. To ensure strict compliance to Section 25 of the Constitution, the
first step was to exclude any hint of arbitrariness and or unreasonableness in
our action, including assessment of the possibility of an alternative property
or availability of less invasive means," Masina said. READ: Ramaphosa assures diplomatic community that land reform will be done in an 'orderly manner' According to the statement, three of the identified properties
are privately owned while the fourth is owned by government. The largest of the privately owned properties is in
Elandsfontein and is 101.2 hectares. Another in Driefontein is 33.6 hectares
and the smallest is in Rietfontein with a size of 4.4 hectares. The fourth property, which is 205 hectares, is owned by the
government and is in Benoni.  "We want the City of Ekurhuleni to be at the forefront
of land reform in Gauteng. We were the first to launch the Rapid Land Release
Programme, and now we want to be the first Metro in Gauteng to expropriate land
without compensation for the purposes of human settlement. Our resolve on this
matter is guided by our commitment to serving the people of Ekurhuleni,"
Masina said. READ: Not all land will be expropriated without compensation – ANC Parliament is currently reviewing Section 25 of the Constitution,
and is expected to decide if this needs to be amended to allow for
expropriation without compensation. On Thursday, the joint review committee asked for more time
to prepare the final report, indicating it would be ready to report back to Parliament
in November. READ: Expropriation without compensation: MPs only expected to report back in November  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  