Jenni Evans Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. (Christopher Moagi, Daily Sun) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi says the Freedom Front Plus' (FF+) insinuation that he wants to abolish Afrikaans at schools is nothing more than "petty politics". "We have never insinuated that Afrikaans will be abolished. This is petty politics and [I] really don't take such [statements seriously]. We will never be deterred to make all our schools accessible to all our children," Lesufi said in a statement. He acknowledged receiving a complaint from the Gauteng legislature's Office of the Integrity Commissioner, that he had violated the Constitution. It had been lodged by the FF+. READ Clash continues between FF Plus and Lesufi over Afrikaans in schools Lesufi said he would respond to the allegations that he was allegedly in contempt of, and had violated sections 29 and 135 of the Constitution over plans to amend school admissions regulations. FF+ Member of the Provincial Legislature in Gauteng Philip van Staden expressed concern over what he believed was Lesufi's meddling in policies of school governing bodies and languages. The last day for submissions on the proposed regulations was on Friday, September 14. The FF+ lodged a 389-page complaint against Lesufi with the Office of the Integrity Commissioner and it contained 277 charges. "Lesufi's latest attempt to destroy Afrikaans as a language and Afrikaans schools has already been published in the Government Gazette, where the MEC is proposing new regulations and the FF Plus is of the opinion that the MEC's attempts can no longer be tolerated and that he must bear the consequences of his actions," Van Staden said. The FF+ ultimately wants Lesufi to resign if the Integrity Commission finds him guilty. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  