Carla Coetzee Mienke and Verna. (Photo: Faceook/PLEASE PRAY FOR MIENKE) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Mienke, the baby from Mbombela (Nelspruit) who last
year suffered brain damage after choking on her milk, faces a new challenge. Mienke Mulder’s story touched the hearts of many when
she choked on her milk on 25 August last year while in the care of her day mother.
She sustained serious brain damage and is still unable to eat, swallow, sit
upright or hold anything. Mienke turns two in January. Now a new challenge has emerged. “Her body swells terribly. The doctors don’t know why
but she’s so swollen it gets hard to bend her knees. She struggles to breathe
and sometimes she’s just unhappy,” her mother, Verna, tells YOU. “It literally happened overnight.” Mienke chokes on her own spit and sometimes stops
breathing because she can’t swallow. She receives food through a tube. “She’s extremely irritable. I feel so sorry for her. I
remember how swollen I got during pregnancy – and she’s 10 times more swollen.
Her body feels hot to the touch,” Verna says. The family of five moved back to Benoni, on Gauteng’s
East Rand, after Mienke’s accident. Doctors have performed all kinds of blood tests and
examined her heart but they’re struggling to pinpoint the cause of the
swelling. “We’re doing urine tests now as well,” Verna says. The family can only pray the cause will be discovered
soon. “But we have new hope. Mienke’s neurologist told us of
intensive therapy in India that might work. The therapy is for people with
brain injuries and apparently the results so far are promising. But we need
about R500 000 to send Mienke. We’re hoping to do it by the end of the
year,” the young mom adds.  “Her Wednesday therapy alone costs R3 500,” she
says. Mienke’s supporters on her Facebook page, Please Pray
for Mienke, send daily messages of support and encouragement. The fund created
for Mienke’s medical care now also sells perfume in an effort to cover costs.  The family remains staunchly positive. “I’ll do
anything for my children,” Verna says.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.