Correspondent SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Westbury in Johannesburg remained quiet on Sunday, as Gauteng police continued to hunt for a third suspect following Thursday's shooting in which a woman died after getting caught in the crossfire of a shooting. “Two men will appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday on charges of murder and attempted murder,” said Lieutenant Colonel Lungelo Dlamini. Another two are also expected in court on public violence charges after residents blocked roads around the suburb with rocks and burning tyres on Friday following the shooting. Dlamini said police are also continuing their search for a man who apparently fired live ammunition from a car, during the  protests, before fleeing the scene. ewn reported on Saturday that residents had vowed to shutdown the area again on Monday, after suspending their protests to mourn the woman's death. The woman died after she was shot in the upper chest after three men opened fire on each other, News24 reported on Thursday.  A 10-year-old girl, believed to be her niece, was wounded in the incident. Residents told News24 that the woman was hit by stray bullets. Nine bullets in a woman? We've had enough, it's not right," resident La-Rochelle Williams said. The husband of the woman, Reuben Petersen told eNCA on Saturday he was at work when he got a call informing him of the incident. “As I rushed home and asked what the situation was and I was told that my wife had passed on,” he said. The widower said the community was living in constant fear, and were even scared to go out to run errands, just like his wife was. “You can’t send your child to the shop because you don’t know if that is the first or the last you are going to see these people,” he said. Residents told News24 on Friday that if police did not do anything about crime in the area they would march to parliament.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  