Canny Maphanga Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga (Wikus de Wet, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Executive Mayor of Tshwane Solly Msimanga is readying himself for another motion of no confidence, which gets under way on Thursday at council chambers in Pretoria. Msimanga previously survived a motion of no confidence, led by the EFF, in August after it was disallowed due to a technicality. Council speaker Katlego Mathebe disallowed the EFF motion saying it did not comply with the rules of council because it was not written and had no accompanying proposal. As a result, the EFF staged a walkout. READ: EFF walks out after its motion of no confidence in Msimanga disallowed Julius Malema previously warned the DA that what had happened to former Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip would also happen to Msimanga. "Msimanga allows white racists who are exposed for taking jobs without the necessary qualifications, to retaliate, and punishes the black City manager for exposing them. We hate corruption," Malema said at the time. Trollip was removed by the ANC, EFF and UDM as mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay on August 27, following a motion of no confidence. ANALYSIS: EFF wagging the dog in Tshwane, NMB After the previous motion of no confidence in Tshwane, Msimanga told News24 that he would reach out to the EFF. "We need to work with the EFF. I mean, it will be delusional to think that we can do this without the EFF," Msimanga said. "We might not be in a solid and formal partnership with them, but they are voting with us on a number of issues. We have been able to pass budgets because of them. They have brought a number of issues to our attention which we are implementing," he added. The council sitting is expected to take place at 10:00 following a 09:00 scheduled press briefing by the ANC caucus in Tshwane.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  