Fever Reporter The participants from the race pose at the Nelson Mandela capture site in Howick. PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE four-day Nelson Mandela Legacy Ride4Hope came to a grand end on Friday at the Nelson Mandela Capture Site in Howick. Starting in Soweto last Tuesday, the race was earmarked as one of the events mandated by the Nelson Mandela Foundation to raise funds and awareness in celebration of the centenary year. Among those competing were comedian Siv Ngesi, disc jockey Kagiso “Milkshake” Mabelane and adventurer and motivational speaker Sibusiso Vilane, as well as captains of industry, charity organisations and renowned athletes. Vilane, who was the first black person to summit Mount Everest, and is an intrepid athlete, added: “Of all the mountains that I have climbed the one that captures my heart is the Drakensberg, which I rode alongside today.” “This is where climbing mountains started for me. I say to people , come to KZN and experience it. Do KZN. The Zulu kingdom has a special place in my heart. I am coming back here next weekend to take in the majestic view again.” Acting CEO of Tourism KwaZulu Natal said that the legacy, Ride4Hope, contributed greatly in activating tourist attractions from as far as Soweto to Howick to Durban which led to growth, development and promotion of destination marketing. Throughout the various routes participants were presented with the unparalleled opportunity of experiencing authentic Zulu and African cultures first-hand, as well as being able to explore the various destinations that are so richly filled with history. “This initiative has enhanced township tourism, which is an important part of the tourism sector and is not just a ride but a journey to unravel the many mysteries that KZN has to offer to the people,” said Makwaka.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.