Canny Maphanga University of Mpumalanga. (Leon Sadiki/City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The student representative council (SRC) and management at the University of Mpumalanga have resolved that classes at the institution must resume with immediate effect. This was decided at a special council meeting on Monday. "It was a fruitful meeting to deal with student protests. We managed to find a way forward which is that we agree that learning and teaching must resume on campus with immediate effect," chair of council Professor David Mabunda told News24 on Monday. This follows a series of protests dating as far back as March at the institution. Students demonstrated over accommodation and alleged corruption in the institution's administration. Mabunda said this would be dealt with while classes resume. "Students' grievances will be investigated by an independent investigator and we have also brought in an independent mediator to assist with the process," Mabunda said. Speaking to News24, SRC president Enock Msibi echoed similar sentiments, insisting that the students' right to education could not be infringed upon further. 'We are not enemies' "We had a productive engagement and agreed that classes must resume immediately. We will deal with other concerns during the course of the year," he said. Msibi was also clear that the possibility of renewed protests at the institution was slim to none. "Protests have come to an end, should we differ with management we now have a mediator that can assist us," he explained. Mabunda also stressed that students and management were working together in efforts to normalise the institution. "Students and management may differ in opinion but we are not enemies, we are working together," Mabunda said. The University of Mpumalanga was peaceful on Monday according to management and students are expected to begin returning to class on Tuesday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  