Avril Fillies You can never be satisfied with crime stats at your police station because it is your duty as a police officer to combat crime. This is how Sergeant Leon Fortuin, spokesperson for Ocean View police, summed up the stats of the station after police minister Bheki Cele released the numbers on Tuesday 11 September. Comparing 2016/2017 with 2017/2018 shows a decrease in crimes against a person, but individual crimes increased or decreased­. “The murder rate in Ocean View was the same with 29 in each book year, but there was an increase in attempted murder from 29 to 40. Robberies increased from 42 to 54 cases,” Fortuin says. Robberies with aggravated circumstances increased from 101 to 146. Other crimes committed include robberies in residential areas from five to 15 cases, an increase of 200%. “The most common things that are stolen from residential areas are televisions and DVD players. Theft out of cars also increased from 93 to 117 cases and this is due to the youngsters driving around with loud music blaring and that is an invitation for suspects to break in as soon as the car is parked. Vehicle owners should be careful not to drive around with loud music,” he said. Fortuin also said drivers are extending invitations to criminals by leaving their valuable items in their cars for everyone to see. “They leave their laptops, cellphones, bags and clothing on the back seat or behind seats for all to see. The best would be to lock it away in the boot, out of sight, to keep their valuables safe. Theft of vehicles and motorcycles also increased from 30 to 43 cases and this is due to a syndicate that is in operation in the area,” Fortuin says. A problem that the police in Ocean View are also experiencing is attempted murder. “We are trying to bring down the attempted murder cases where firearms are used. The suspects are known but in most cases no or few charges are laid. The fact that we are not arresting suspects for attempted murder cases is because the injured parties fear of their lives,” he said. Rape cases decreased but sexual assaults increased. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  