Mxolisi Mngadi Mxolisi Kaunda (Amanda Khoza, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories KwaZulu-Natal transport, community safety and liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda has urged police to work around the clock to find the killers of murdered ANC KwaZulu-Natal regional leader Thulani Nxumalo. Nxumalo, who was the party's branch chairperson in eThekwini's Ward 12 in KwaNdengezi, was gunned down outside his home shortly after a branch executive committee meeting on Monday. He was also the chairperson of a community policing forum in the area. Kaunda on Tuesday condemned Nxumalo's killing. Kaunda also called for calm in the area and urged residents to give police space to conduct thorough investigations into the motive behind his killing. He asked that members of the community who may have witnessed the incident share information with the police "so that whoever is implicated in the crime faces the full might of the law". A 'stable' area "As the provincial government, we would like to send our deepest condolences to the Nxumalo family during this time of bereavement. May they find comfort that Nxumalo left a legacy that we are all proud of as he dedicated most of his time to the service of the community. "In his honour, the provincial government will ensure that community crime-fighting structures are strengthened in the area," said Kaunda. He noted that KwaNdengezi was one of the province's stable areas. "Police will continue to maintain a strong presence in the area to ensure that incidents of crime are prevented," he said. Police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo confirmed Nxumalo's killing. He said a murder case was being investigated. "I can confirm that Thulani Nxumalo was walking on foot in KwaNdengezi when he was attacked and shot dead by unknown suspect/s." Kaunda is expected to visit Nxumalo's family on Wednesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  