Kaveel Singh Sadia Sukhraj (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Outstanding DNA analysis has led to the postponement of the Durban Magistrate's Court case relating to the hijacking and murder of 9-year-old Sadia Sukhraj. The case has been postponed to November 8. The accused, 32-year-old Sibonelo Mkhize appeared calm as he stood in the dock on Wednesday before Magistrate Mahomed Motala. Contrary to his first appearance, when he had a cut to the eye, bruises on his face and a limp, Mkhize stood up straight during his appearance on Wednesday. He wore red formal pants over his orange jumpsuit and had spectacles on his face and a silver watch on his wrist. He has been confined to Westville Prison. Mkhize previously claimed police beat him, but prosecutor Surekha Marimuthoo disputed this and countered that Mkhize sustained his injuries from a public beating during his arrest. Read: Sadia Sukhraj's alleged hijacker claims police beat him He has been provisionally charged with two counts of murder, one count of kidnapping and one count of theft. Sukhraj's death garnered massive public support. At her funeral in May, thousands of mourners paid their respects to the young girl at the Christian Revival Centre (CRC). At the burial ceremony, rain pelted down as family members sang church songs and stayed close together, fighting tears. Her father, well-known Pastor Shailendra Sukhraj, was in the car with her during the incident and is alleged to have shot at the hijackers as they drove off with his daughter. The hijackers crashed into a truck shortly afterward. One assailant was arrested, another killed and a third is still at large. Read more: Only a matter of time before final suspect in Sadia Sukhraj killing is caught – Cele WATCH:  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  