Jan Gerber (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The police and State Security Agency (SSA) are investigating the circumstances of a shooting incident at the parliamentary precinct on Friday in which a contract worker, 57-year old Lennox Garane, took his own life. "The parliamentary community is still reeling from the shock following the tragic death on Friday of Mr Lennox Garane, who was a section manager for policy in the international relations and protocol division of Parliament," Parliament spokesperson Moloto Mothapo said in a statement. Garane was appointed in terms of a five-year contract on October 1, 2013. Previously, he worked at the Development Bank of Southern Africa. "The management of Parliament has visited the family of Mr Garane and is providing support and counselling services in line with the policy of Parliament," the statement continued. On Monday, staff affected by the incident received professional counselling, which would be available on a 24-hour basis. After the incident, which happened around midday on Friday, several staff members also expressed concern about how a firearm ended up on the premises. Heightened security measures "The investigations by both the South African Police Service (SAPS) and the State Security Agency (SSA) are continuing while security measures at all entrance or access points to Parliament have been heightened for the safety and security of all other members of the parliamentary community, service providers and the public accessing or entering the parliamentary precinct," Mothapo said. "Parliament appeals to all people affected by these heightened measures to be patient and co-operate with the South African Police Service as efforts are undertaken to ensure that they are reasonable and less intrusive through, among others, use of well-functioning security technology." It was reported that Garane received the news that his contract would not be renewed shortly before the incident. But Mothapo said: "Parliament has also noted with concern the speculative and harmful conclusions on the alleged factors behind the death, which are still under investigation. Parliament wishes to appeal to all and sundry to give the investigations appropriate space and avoid perpetrating actions and utterances that could further retard the healing of the family and compromise the investigations into this tragedy. "The parliamentary community wishes to express its condolences to the family of Mr Garane, work colleagues and friends during this dark hour of prematurely losing their loved one. "May his soul rest in peace."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  