Khosi Biyela Thanda Ngcobo & Mduduzi Ndlovu at their Umembeso (engagement ceremony) in April this year (PHOTO: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The country mourned the death of three firefighters who died while fighting a blaze at a building belonging to the Gauteng government in the Johannesburg CBD recently. The fallen firemen include: Mduduzi Ndlovu (40), Simphiwe Moropane (28) and Khathutshelo Muedi (37). Now, Mduduzi’s fiancée, Thanda Ngcobo says she still can’t come to terms with her fiancé's death. “I don’t know what I will do without him,” the 36-year-old told Drum. “I don’t even know what’s happening around me or what date it is. My mind is not functioning but at least I can speak now.” The couple who started dating in 2006 have two baby girls, 10-month-old Anele and 11-year-old Sthandwa. Even though Thanda is shattered by the death of her fiancé she feels Mduduzi had foreseen his death. The pair lived in different provinces – Mduduzi,  was born in KZN and lived in Joburg while his fiancée was based in Pietermaritzburg. Last weekend before the incident they were together in Johannesburg where Mduduzi allegedly told Thanda that he was going to die, and she will mourn him. “On Saturday he told me that he was going to die. He said his work will kill him if not his car. I told him to stop saying that,” recalls a distraught Thanda. Little did she know that Mduduzi’s words will become a reality. The couple who had their Umembeso (engagement ceremony) in April this year was also planning their wedding which was to take place in December 2019. But all those plans have come tumbling down for Thanda and her two daughters. “I really don’t know what I will do without him. How I will raise these two kids without him because he was doing everything for them. He had plans for them.” Mduduzi and Kathutshelo Muedi are believed to have died from lack of oxygen after they became trapped in the building. *Full story will appear in an upcoming issue of Drum Magazine. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  