Kaveel Singh ANC flag. (Thulani Mbele, Gallo Images, Sowetan, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has vowed to act against anyone in their ranks who is found to have played a part in political killings. "We must emphasise that we will act with haste against anyone within our ranks found to have played a part in these criminal activities and we appeal to other political parties to do the same," ANC KZN secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli said. Ntuli was speaking at a press briefing at the party's provincial headquarters where they were reacting to the report of the Moerane Commission of Inquiry into political killings in the province. He said the ANC believed that the release of the report marked "the beginning of a new chapter" in the party. Ntuli added that, while the ANC would assume innocence until someone was proven guilty, anyone who was found guilty would be expected to remove themselves from public office. "[Any] ANC member would undergo self-introspection and be guided by their moral and political conscience to step aside, out of their own volition – from active participation in party political activities to prevent further harm to the ANC image." ANC team to implement recommendations He added that the party would set up its own task team to implement recommendations made in the report. "The report of the commission and its implication will be tabled to the provincial working committee and [we will] thereafter map out the implementation plan."   Ntuli said it was worrying that the report mentioned issues relating to tenders as a key cause of many political killings. He said the party had mandated Premier Willis Mchunu to resolve the issue by tackling the province's treasury. "When the premier briefed ANC leadership – part of what we asked him to do was mandate provincial treasury to tighten processes in the provinces. We need to know what interventions are required." Ntuli went deeper and said those who managed tender systems would also be scrutinised. "If your commitment is the agenda of self-enrichment and if you see the department as a gravy train, then you should not be in government." He said that while some matters would be implemented by the province, many would require input from the party's national executive committee (NEC). "Some of the work has started, but some issues are long term and will be done in time with processes being followed. Some issues will go to national through engagement with the NEC. We should have better clarity on most of the recommendations by then." Report recommendations There have been more than 100 deaths linked to political killings in KwaZulu-Natal in the past four years alone. Mchunu released the Moerane Commission report on the killings for public review in the KZN legislature on September 20. The finalised report pointed to a number of failures by government, provincial politics and ultimately, to material greed. While not providing too much detail, Mchunu was adamant that the provincial government he leads would move swiftly to apply recommendations to relevant parties. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  