Nombulelo Damba-Hendrik, GroundUp At Home Affairs in Cofimvaba people must pay security guards R4 to get access to the toilets - or use an open field. (Photo: Nombulelo Damba-Hendrik) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories People visiting Home Affairs in Cofimvaba near Queenstown, Eastern Cape, say security guards are forcing them to pay R4 if they need to use the toilet, GroundUp reports. If they don't pay, they are told to "hold it in" or use an open field nearby to relieve themselves. This "business" has been ongoing for years, say locals, and the price has kept rising. When GroundUp visited the offices, the toilets were locked. Two elderly women needed the toilet urgently. "First pay, then you can use the toilet," a security guard told one of them. Nosebenzile Gwele, 62, from Mcungco village, said, "We are forced to use the open field if we do not have money to pay for the toilet. What is sad is that this is a government place and we are voters but we can't use toilets for free. We are forced to pay." Gwele said she had arrived at the Home Affairs office at 08:00. She was waiting for her grandchild to get a new ID card. She said she had already paid R8 to use the toilet so far that day. A woman who identified herself as Nosandise from Chamama village said she was no longer ashamed of using the open field in front of Home Affairs. "People see our bums; we just made peace with that," she said. Home Affairs spokesperson Thabo Makgola said the provincial management was looking into the matter. When GroundUp checked two weeks later, guards were still demanding payment to use the toilet. Earlier this month, the portfolio committee on home affairs said it remained concerned about similar reported criminal elements allegedly continuing to operate outside the Desmond Tutu Refugee office in Pretoria. READ: MPs concerned about reported 'criminal elements' at Pretoria refugee office Committee chairperson Hlomani Chauke said they had received reports that security around the precinct had not improved, and that some officials were involved in alleged crimes occurring at or near the office. The committee escalated the issue of corrupt practices around home affairs' centres to the security cluster and Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  