Christina Pitt Ferra Thompson was murdered in her home in Pringle Bay. (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 22-year-old man, who dreams of becoming a rapper, was slapped with an effective 22-year sentence by the Western Cape High Court for the robbery and murder of his employer. Martin Mncube was given a 22-year sentence for murder and a 15-year sentence for robbery with aggravating circumstances on Thursday. The two sentences are to run concurrently. "In his plea explanation, Mncube says he robbed his employer because he had a dream to be a rap artist in Cape Town and have his own album," National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said on Thursday. Ferra Thompson employed Mncube as a general worker at her home in Hangklip Road, Pringle Bay and would often leave him alone in the house. Read: Pringle Bay resident knew 'nice guy' accused of killing her On August 13, 2017, Mncube attacked Thompson at home. "He arrived at her house and used the toilet and while she was heading towards the door to open it for him, he grabbed her from behind around her neck and threatened her not to make noise," Ntabazalila said. "He dragged her to the toilet he previously used, took out a Sellotape he had in the backpack he brought with [and] wrapped it around her mouth and her legs." Mncube then chained Thompson to a chair that he had carried to the toilet. After demanding the PIN for her bank cards, he wrapped Sellotape around her nose. He then proceeded to bludgeon her with a piece of artwork. "He also took her Samsung laptop, Huawei tablet, cellphone, her vehicle registration papers, a Honda Jazz, a BMW X3 vehicle and a gas pistol," Ntabazalila said. "He attempted to drive away with the BMW but he couldn't start it. He then drove off with her Honda Jazz vehicle. Her body was discovered the next day." Read more: Gardener in court for allegedly killing Pringle Bay employer He withdrew R4 000 from her bank account and damaged the vehicle beyond repair en route to Hermanus. During sentencing proceedings, prosecutor Sabata Choane said Mncube had committed the crimes out of greed. "It is clear from the accused that the robbery was planned. What is not clear though is why the accused chose the deceased as his victim and why the deceased had to die," Choane said. "Ferra Thompson was a beloved mother, sister and loving wife when the accused ended her life. Her family describes the deceased as a kind person and request this honourable court to impose what they call a maximum sentence." He submitted that the accused should be sentenced to life imprisonment for murder and 15 years for robbery. However, the court found a number of mitigating factors, that also included the accused's age, and imposed a lighter sentence. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  