Christina Pitt Wemmershoek Dam. (Melanie Gosling, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Cape Town has made the move to relax current water restrictions from Level 6B to Level 5 from October 1, Deputy Mayor Ian Neilson announced. After suffering from the worst drought in recent history, Cape Town's dams are nearing 70% of storage capacity – a significant improvement from the 38% capacity recorded at the end of the previous winter. "The very low supply storage resulted in the imposition of Level 6B water restrictions in February 2018," Neilson said. "The enormously positive response from Capetonians when called upon to reduce water usage, as well as advanced pressure and water management programmes by the City, saved the say and Cape Town avoided the worst-case scenario." SPECIAL REPORT: Water Crisis The key elements of Level 5 restrictions are as follows: Residential tariffs (excluding VAT)  Commercial and industrial tariffs Executive Director of Informal Settlements, Water and Sanitation Gisela Kaiser clarified that the City was not encouraging Capetonians to increase their water usage. "At Level 6B, our overall target was 450 million litres a day – we never reached it. We are now at around 500 million litres a day. The ideal situation is to stay at 500 million litres, which is still our target under Level 5," she said. "We are not encouraging people to use more, but with the 500 million litres comes a different target. People are already using more than 50 litres per day, we are just charging the right price now to come in overall at 500 million litres per day." READ: Dam levels rise to move out of the City's danger zone for first time in two years Once dam capacity exceeded 50% at the end of July 2018, the City discussed the relaxation of restrictions with the National Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS). Following two meetings with other large users in the system and DWS, Neilson said that an agreement was reached for a gradual reduction in the overall restrictions. "The relaxation of restrictions is a moderate proposal that is based on hydrological risk assessment that indicates that it is safe to do so at the level of risk that is agreed upon," Neilson said. "Of course, the amended Level 5 restriction guidelines for water usage will apply and we are confident that the significant behavioural change that we've seen pertaining to water conservation will prevail to a large extent." READ: City of Cape Town calls for relaxing of water restrictions as dam levels rise A further reassessment for future adjustments will be made once the DWS makes a ruling for the new hydrological year or advises on an interim relaxation. Neilson noted that while DWS undertook to respond to the proposal by 31 August, they have yet to do so. He said that it appears that the DWS is reluctant to make any adjustment before the end of the hydrological year the end of October 2018. "We would have preferred to get a response, but we have not received a response," he explained. "We just have to come to a conclusion that they are unable, in the decision-making process, to come to a quick conclusion on this. On the other hand, we saw no purpose in continuing with the Level 6B restrictions because there is enough water in the dams." Neilson added that the City had planned on implementing the lower water restrictions on September 1 but were unable to do so as they were awaiting a response from the DWS. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  