Christina Pitt A group of demonstrators from the Social Justice Coalition at Parliament during the release of the annual crime statistics. (Christina Pitt, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A group of demonstrators from the Social Justice Coalition (SJC) marched to Parliament during the release of the annual crime statistics on Tuesday to demand the equal allocation of police resources. The group gathered outside Parliament while Police Minister Bheki Cele and national police commissioner Khehla Sitole announced the crime statistics. READ: Murder by numbers: This is the rate of killing in SA In terms of the statistics, South Africa's murder rate has increased by 6.9% and in the past year, 1 320 people were murdered. Sitole also announced that there was a "deficit" of 62 000 SA Police Service (SAPS) members. SJC secretary general Mandisa Dyantyi said the statistics reflected the current allocation of police resources, saying that poor black and coloured communities were discriminated against. "If you look at Nyanga, 306 people have died in the past year alone," she said. "If you look at the crime statistics in [upmarket neighbourhood] Claremont, you will see that they have more police resources than Nyanga. Nyanga needs more police resources." The SJC's memorandum referred to the Khayelitsha Commission of Inquiry, which found that routine policing patrols were conducted in vehicles on paved roads and therefore informal settlements were not accessible by vehicle. OVERVIEW: 'We haven't reached a state of lawlessness' in SA - Cele on 2017/2018 #CrimeStats "The result, as one station commander admitted to the commission, is that the policing of informal neighbourhoods is 'neglected'. The commission considered it completely unacceptable that neighbourhoods where residents are vulnerable, are being largely overlooked by the SAPS," the memorandum said. Dyantyi claimed that if police statistics were only released once a year, it meant police operations were not intelligence-based and that resources were not allocated according to need. The SJC gave Cele and Sitole three months to respond to their demands, which include:   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  