Ntombizodwa Makhoba victim A Tshwane woman claims her drink was spiked. She says she escaped being raped or killed and had to be rescued by a friend PHOTOs: leon sadiki Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 27-year-old former actress has claimed to be the latest victim of “drink-spiking”, saying she narrowly escaped being raped and possibly even murdered. The spiking took place recently in Tshwane at a popular nightclub, known for hosting high-profile people. The petite mother of one, who holds a BA degree in arts, told City Press this week that what was supposed to be a great night out turned into a hellish nightmare. She was speaking on condition of anonymity, because she said she was scared to “name and shame” the club because the owner “might come after me”. “It was about 22:30 when I was out with friends. We went to a club where I had only two ciders before proceeding to another club. “Upon our arrival we were offered a bottle of gin and a few cans of tonic water. I had two glasses of gin with tonic and the waitress offered us some complimentary shooters. I was the only one who drank those shooters,” she said, adding that she started to dance like a 16-year-old. “I do not recall much of what happened after we left the second club but I remember waking up in an apartment with one big mattress, burglar-barred doors and two Nigerian men trying to force themselves on me. “I started hallucinating, screaming and seeing strange things and one of the guys got so irritated he eventually kicked me out,” said the young woman. She said in the middle of everything one of her friends kept on calling her to check if she had arrived home safely. Her friend found her walking down a street, picked her up and dropped her home. Her friend, an actress, confirmed the incident. Although she was happy to be alive, she became very ill when she got home – she suffered from diarrhoea and kept on vomiting. She said the following day she asked her friends what they remembered and, from their recollection of the events, she realised she could have been drugged. “I rushed to the doctor to get some tests done. Unfortunately, there was no trace of anything in my system. I couldn’t open a case as I had no evidence,” she said. Many spiking attacks are not reported and it is thought the numbers could be very high. Most victims don’t report their cases because there is no concrete evidence that their drinks had been spiked. Police spokesperson Mavela Masondo told City Press they were not aware of drink-spiking incidents because no cases had been reported in Tshwane. “We are appealing to victims to come forward and report it so that we can investigate,” he said. The victim said she still had not recovered. “This was one of the scariest experiences of my life and it was important to seek counselling immediately.” The club owner said: “We are anti drugs, women abuse and human trafficking. We are pleading for the alleged victim to come forward and we will support her where we can.” The victim said: “I am disturbed by the statement and behaviour of the people from the club. I honestly hope they will act responsibly and take this incident as a wake-up call to what activities are happening in their space. “I am lucky to be alive and to tell my story. The worst could have happened to me – I couldn’t have been raped or killed.” This week City Press visited Hatfield, which allegedly is known for drink-spiking. Most people claimed they had experienced drink-spiking once, but they didn’t lay charges because there was usually no evidence. Some claimed that after being spiked they found their gadgets, such as cellphones and laptops, were nowhere to be found. Thomas Manungufhala claimed he was a victim. He said he was with a friend when they met two beautiful women and offered to give them a ride. “They sat in the back and they opened a bottle of whisky. “While we were still enjoying their good company I suddenly felt dizzy. The driver was also drowsy and he lost control of the car. Nobody was hurt, but the car was damaged. “Through all of this we were hallucinating. The ladies stole our phones, wallets and they withdrew all our money from our bank accounts. “I slept for two days – my body was numb and I lost my appetite,” said Manungufhala, adding that neither he nor his friend had opened a case because they had no proof. A popular Tshwane socialite, who also asked to remain anonymous, claimed that he was drugged at a popular club. “After the second round of shooters I felt dizzy and went to the bathroom to throw up. I passed out in the toilet,” he said, adding that his friends told him the next day he was acting strangely and was screaming on the night. He has since been banned from the nightclub. A popular club owner, who asked not to be named, acknowledged that drink-spiking was common in Tshwane and Sandton’s popular nightclubs. “It’s not only drink-spiking that is popular, but it is no secret that people sell drugs in these popular nightclubs,” he said. Drink-spiking or lacing is a worldwide occurrence. According to an independent UK online survey, 1 039 cases came up when police used the words ‘drinking’, ‘spiking’ or ‘lacing’. The Met Police in London recorded the most cases last year, with 179 reports. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  