Mxolisi Mngadi Supra Mahumapelo (Frennie Shivambu, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The dissolution of the ANC North West provincial executive committee (PEC) is a positive step towards getting rid of factionalism and disunity in the province," said the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) in the province on Saturday. The ANC's national executive committee (NEC) held a meeting on Thursday night in Cape Town, where it was decided to disband the North West PEC, removing Supra Mahumapelo as chairperson. Sanco provincial chairperson, Paul Sebegoe applauded the appointment of premier Job Mokgoro as the convenor of the Provincial Task Team (PTT) to be announced. Mokgoro replaced Mahumapelo as the province's premier earlier this year. Mahumapelo was removed as the premier in May after weeks of unrest in the province. "At a governance level, it will allow the premier to strengthen the executive council, bring on board people who will accelerate service delivery in the interest of our communities while pursuing those alleged to have used their positions to enrich themselves, their families and cronies through fraudulent and corrupt activities," said Sebegoe. READ: 'Disciplined' Supra to be 'integrated' into ANC's North West task team Sebegoe said the individuals who are to be appointed to the PTT must be selfless, morally upright and patriotic individuals and not those who would seek to advance their personal interests. "They should be tried and tested cadres who will rise above factional loyalties, work tirelessly to unite the ANC in order to win back the confidence of our communities and position it for a decisive elections victory in the 2019 elections," he stressed. Sebegoe added that the resignation of the provincial Director General, Dr Lydia Sebego presented Mokgoro with an opportunity to make the right appoint at the helm of the provincial administration while holding other accounting officers accountable for mismanagement and corruption. Mokgoro's office announced Sebego's resignation on Thursday. "Resignations and or redeployments of public representatives as well as officials must not absolve anyone from criminal prosecution for their misdemeanours if confidence is to be restored in public institutions," he said. ANC secretary general Ace Magashule told the media on Friday that "disciplined member of the ANC" Mahumapelo will be integrated into the provincial task team to be established in the troubled province. "The NEC agreed to set up an inclusive provincial task team that will be seized with the task of uniting the organisation and positioning it as an effective leader of society," Magashule said.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  