Siphelele Nketo THE African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) of the Harry Gwala region has called the recent ANC Harry Gwala regional congress a “bogus congress” and asked for intervention. The congress was held at Ixopo on August 30 after being postponed several times. At the congress, former regional chairperson Zamo Nxumalo and Secretary Sindi Msomi retained their positions while Phumzile Nocanda was elected as deputy chairperson and Less Stuta the treasurer. The youth league believes that the people who were elected at the congress are illegitimate due to improper proceedings being followed. Youth league regional chairperson Zwakele Mngonyama said the congress was supposed to be called off because more than 50% ANC branches did not attend. “The youth league is not recognising the newly elected members and we request the party to organise another congress to elect rightful people. “At a previous congress, the regional league was given a slot to send out messages of support, but this time around, we were not given a slot,” he said. In response, KwaZulu-Natal ANC spokesperson Nomagugu Simelane said the party had received complaints from different structures, including the Youth League, about the regional congress, however all complaints will be addressed according to the processes of the party. “The regional congress was held legally, and the majority of the branches attended. “One hundred and eighty members who were supposed to form part of the congress decided not to attend and the congress was opened without them,” said Simelane. Mngonyama said the region has faced many political challenges “Imposing a certain grouping structure to the leadership without exhausting organisational issues will further weaken the ANC. We wish to advise the ANC to investigate this so-called conference, as we understand that over 50% of branches never participated in this fraudulent gathering of friends who find their joy in destroying the mighty movement of Harry Gwala. “The ANC should declare this gathering unlawful,” he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  