Sharika Regchand Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A woman whose ex-husband has been jailed for four-and-a-half
years for not paying maintenance has encouraged others in similar situations
never to give up. Louise Potgieter (60) on Friday told of her anguished
six-year battle to hold Andre Potgieter (54) - the "former" owner of
the RJ's Steak House franchise - accountable for not paying maintenance for her
and her son, now 21 years old. The court found that Potgieter made the lives of his ex-wife
and son unbearable. Louise said that it came as a surprise to her when Andre
was sent to jail. On the other hand, she said: "With us [her and her son]
being on the streets for so long, it is a small price for him to pay". Louise vividly recalled how her ex-husband had her arrested
on four separate occasions for going against restraining orders he took out
against her. "He used to have me arrested on a Friday and I had to
spend all weekend in jail," she said. Parent24: Moms vs Dads - know your rights Andre Potgieter was sentenced in July by Krugersdorp
magistrate Abdul Khan for failing to pay spousal and child maintenance. An execution order to attach the businessman's assets valued
at about R1.5 million to recover the money owed to Louise was also issued by
the magistrate. However, her attorney Mohammed Beni said Andre Potgieter is
challenging the order. "But we will fight tooth and nail to help her get what
she is entitled to." The magistrate found that the Potgieters both started the RJ's
franchise in 2002. When they decided to divorce in 2009, there was a fierce
battle to control the business which led to many court actions and the joint
looting of the business assets. Nonetheless, a court ordered Andre to pay maintenance. A few months after the divorce, he stopped paying under the
pretext that he was no longer the owner of RJ's, but merely an employee, said
Khan. Andre's girlfriend was the new owner. 'Elaborate' scheme It turns out, said the magistrate, that Andre devised an "elaborate"
scheme with his lover that ensured that Louise and her son did not receive "a
cent" of maintenance. "While you [Andre] lived in the lap of luxury, she and
your son had to move from place to place, town to town, and house to house to
find a place to sleep and find something to eat," said Khan. The magistrate said he was "shocked" and "dumbfounded"
to find out that Louise was threatened with arrest, disappearance and civil
suits to withdraw the case. "The accused [Andre] has devised a way to plead
poverty. Thereafter, he used the police and underhand tactics." Khan did not hold back in his criticism of Andre's conduct.
He also highlighted several times in his judgment the rights of women and
children. "You have been convicted of an offence against the most
vulnerable members of society, a woman and a child. And this is not any woman,
and it is not any child … this is the mother of your two sons, and the child is
your own son," said Khan. He said that Andre had many opportunities to make things
right by paying the maintenance, but did not.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  