Msindisi Fengu (File, iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Subjects promoting creative thinking, problem solving,
innovation and collaboration are in the pipeline for pupils in schools. So said basic education director-general Mathanzima Mweli in
an interview with City Press this week on the sidelines of a two-day indaba
hosted in Pretoria by the Education Labour Relations Council – a bargaining
council that serves the public education sector provincially and nationally to
maintain labour peace. Mweli said technical maths and science, which prepare pupils
to study engineering at universities and public colleges, were introduced to
schools and matriculants would be tested on them this year. He said this was part of the department's strategy to equip
pupils with skills and improve the quality of education to fit the needs of a
changing world. At the indaba senior education officials from national and
provincial education departments and union representatives discussed how
schools should look like in future. Discussions also centred on reviewing the current Peter
Morkel model used by provinces to provide schools with teachers. Early
childhood development (ECD) practitioners will be promoted to Grade R teachers. Consultants from Deloitte have been tasked to come up with
an ideal model to distribute teachers to schools, which would be standard across
the country. At the moment, provincial education departments decide on
their own how many teachers should be provided for each school. The Peter Morkel model – a policy used by the department to
provide school teachers – has been criticised by unions and experts over the
years for only being concerned about providing teachers without taking into
consideration other needs of pupils, especially in poor schools. 'Radical and revolutionary' approach Mweli said there may also be a need for a "radical and
revolutionary" approach that would challenge existing policies and could
lead to the amendment of current legislation. "Consistent with the notion of the new dawn, we need to
look at ways of repositioning the basic education sector to provide skills for
a changing world. We need to review our current systems and models. We started
with ECD to lay a firm and solid foundation for a quality education. What is
key is the teachers you provide because those are foot soldiers who must
provide quality education in the context of skills for a changing world. We are
interrogating our current model, whether it's keeping with where we want to be
in 2030. We are also looking at a model that can afford us quality education in
the context of skills for a changing world." He said during discussions parties acknowledged that budget
and resources for education were diminishing. "Our budgeting and resource
allocation is getting reduced virtually year by year, based on the economic
situation that the country finds itself in. Budget cuts and reprioritising
affect education like all other sectors. We are saying what we need to do is to
make sure that we still continue with our efforts of providing quality
education." He said the indaba afforded an opportunity to reflect what
could be changed instead of continuously repeating things yearly without
knowing if there were improvements or not. International visits Mweli said this year a team of officials and unionists was
sent to seven countries, including Finland, which is rated as the best in the
world, to study what they were doing right. He said parties at the indaba agreed on a need to factor in
those lessons drawn from the international visits that would work for the
country. He believes that a focus on ECD foundation could work
towards providing quality education. Creative thinking, problem solving, innovation and
collaboration are skills that education systems in the whole world are looking
at, Mweli said. "That includes [the fourth] industrial revolution,
entrepreneurship, technical and vocational education. That's the package of
skills for a changing world." These subjects are part of a three-stream model to produce
the kind of pupils for a workforce required in the developing world. He said a pilot was underway for the technical occupational
stream, which would be offered in schools for skills. Next year, this subject
would be implemented. Schools of specialisation Gauteng has started with schools of specialisation, which
feature aviation, and technical and vocational skills. "But we are also saying we need to increase the number
of art schools. We have art schools in this country. The artists who end up
getting qualified in universities and pursuing their careers in performance
arts come from our schools. We've got maritime schools and what we are looking
for is to increase the number so as to ensure that the greater majority of our
people have access to that. Plans are in place to unfold that," he said. During discussions at the indaba, Mweli said "a radical
and revolutionary" shift could mean that the department may have to reduce
posts of school management teams - those who manage day-to-day operations of
schools - in favour of more teachers. He said there were countries like Zimbabwe, Germany and
Italy that prioritised providing more teachers than school management teams.  TALK TO US How would a policy change to allow for standard distribution
of teachers across the country improve the quality of basic education? SMS us on 35697 using the keyword EDUCATION and tell us what
you think. Please include your name and province. SMSes cost R1.50 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  