Pule Letshwiti Tshwane University of Technology Pretoria Campus (PHOTO: Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A screengrab of an email, allegedly from Tshwane University of Technology (TUT), stating that the Soshanguve South and North campuses of TUT will be shut down indefinitely has been doing the rounds on social media. Academic activities were suspended at the campuses after a student was shot dead in a student representative council election dispute. Since then students have been concerned over when classes will commence. However, the email has been confirmed as a hoax by TUT and the department of education.  “It is with great sadness to announce that both the Soshanguve North and South Campuses will no longer be in operation for good as of today 17 September 2018. Students already enrolled in the either of the two campuses will be removed from the Tshwane University of technology database,” the email reads. Speaking to DRUM, both the department of higher education and training and TUT denied the claims in the email. “I can tell you now that it’s not true. Both the department of higher education and the institution are working in hand to try to resolve the problem. It’s a matter of serious concern to the minister when any university has to suspend classes. So, our interest is to make sure that classes at the university commence as soon as possible,” department of higher education and training spokesperson Lunga Ngqengelele said. TUT also brushed off the rumours and advised students to visit their website for more updates on the matter and students will be notified via email on their TUT4Life address. “We continue to monitor the situation and we will make an announcement when it’s safe for students to return. Classes will not be suspended for the remainder of the year because there is a contingency plan for the Soshanguve campuses. Communication will be sent to students directly,” TUT spokesperson Willa de Ruyter told DRUM.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  