Mxolisi Mngadi (File, iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two KwaZulu-Natal students have been stabbed to death in separate incidents while on campus at the weekend. A 19-year-old University of Zululand (UniZulu) student was stabbed, allegedly by his roommate, at the institution's KwaDlangezwa campus on Sunday following an argument between the two, university spokesperson Gcina Nhleko-Mdluli said on Monday. Following the stabbing, the roommate was assaulted by other students and was taken to hospital. The 25-year-old has since been arrested and is currently under police guard until he is well enough to appear in court on a murder charge, provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said. Nhleko-Mdluli said the institution had initiated its own independent investigation following the fatal stabbing. "University leadership has also taken swift and decisive action by initiating an independent investigation which will unravel facts surrounding the incident as the details are not clear at the moment. "The university has also taken note that the matter is under the full police investigation," she said. Nhleko-Mdluli said another student from the institution had died on Saturday as a result of a car accident in Richards Bay. Counselling for those affected The university extended its "deepest sympathies" to the families of the deceased as well as the university community for the tragic loss of young lives, she said. The university was providing counselling services to all the affected parties, said Nhleko-Mdluli. "We urge anyone who requires counselling services to advise the student support service for further assistance," she said. Meanwhile, a University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) student was stabbed to death during a party at the institution's Westville campus in the early hours of Saturday morning. "There was a party… when a commotion ensued, three unknown suspects fatally stabbed a 22-year-old student and they fled. He sustained multiple stab wounds to the upper body," Mbele said. She said a 20-year-old suspect had been arrested and a case of murder was opened at the Westville police station. He was expected to appear in the Pinetown Magistrate's Court on Monday. UKZN was not immediately available for comment. Police Minister Bheki Cele is expected to visit UniZulu on Tuesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  