Sesona Ngqakamba Mzwandile Masina (Daily Sun) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC caucus in Ekurhuleni has welcomed a council decision to expropriate several properties without compensation for public purposes. On Thursday Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina announced that an ordinary council meeting had resolved to initiate the process. The meeting took place in the Germiston council chambers. "The ANC caucus is of the view that the expropriation of abandoned, dormant and unused land, as well as buildings for public purpose and development will benefit the people of Ekurhuleni," ANC chief whip Jongizizwe Dlabathi said. He said it would contribute to the outcomes of the party's commitment to building 100 000 houses and allocating 59 000 serviced stands by the end of the current term of office. Dlabathi added that the decision was also a huge milestone in the history of the City of Ekurhuleni and South Africa in general. Read: Ekurhuleni identifies land to expropriate without compensation A demonstration of decisiveness "It is well-documented that the struggle of returning the land to the people has always been the political struggle led by [the] African National Congress, along with many progressive organisations," he said. Dlabathi said the move by the council was a demonstration of decisiveness and set a good precedent given that land was a critical component of the party's "radical socio-economic transformation trajectory". Masina has identified at least four properties, three of them privately owned, that he wants to expropriate without compensation. Also read: Expropriation without compensation: MPs only expected to report back in November Masina said he wanted Ekurhuleni to be the first metro in Gauteng to expropriate land without compensation, with the land expected to be used to establish new residential areas. "The City of Ekurhuleni has identified four occupied properties whose owners have essentially relinquished their property ownership rights and responsibilities. The City plans to immediately develop and establish townships on these pieces of land," Masina said in a statement. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  