THE African National Congress (ANC) Harry Gwala region has commended work done by SAPS after a man appeared at the Umzimkhulu Magistrate’s Court after being linked to the murder case of former ANCYL secretary-general and Umzimkhulu Municipality Councillor Sindiso Magaqa. On September 13, the Umzimkhulu Magistrate’s Court remanded the case for a formal bail application before the end of this month. ANC Harry Gwala regional secretary Sindi Msomi thanked SAPS for their breakthrough and called for thorough investigations into other political related killings in the region. She called for truth in all KZN political murder cases. “We want to know the reasons that led to the murder of Magaqa and other local politicians. “We want other political murder cases to return to courts to find closure,” she said adding that criminals deserve harsh sentences. In the space of four months, Magaqa, Councillor Khaya Thobela, and Councillor Mduduzi Tshibase, all from the Umzimkhulu Municipality, were killed. Magaqa died in September while Tshibase, who was the PR Councillor and a Ward Four ANC member in Umzimkhulu, was murdered in June. Thobela, who worked as a speaker of the Umzimkhulu Municipality and was the ANC Harry Gwala deputy regional secretary, was killed in April. National Minister of Police Bheki Cele announced a task team to investigate all political killings in KwaZulu-Natal in July. Since then 28 people have been arrested, 22 are behind bars, two are out on bail, and four have been released for further investigations. In a media statement last week, Cele said there were 137 case dockets from KZN and there is significant progress. “The continuous Prosecutorial Guided Investigations (PGI), engagements between prosecutors and investigators are yielding positive results in the ongoing investigations. “It gives us great pleasure to announce that some of the case dockets are in the final stages of investigations and some are before various courts within the province,” he said. SAPS have discovered eight pistols, one revolver, 126 ammunition and eight magazines during the arrests. Six people who were linked to the killing of Musawenkosi Mchunu appeared in Pietermaritzburg Regional Court on September 11 and the matter was remanded for a formal bail application on September 20.