Kaveel Singh (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A KwaZulu-Natal police station could only get convictions for two of the 74 murder cases that were reported to it in the past year. The KwaDukuza police station on the north coast of the province has come under scrutiny after Police Minister Bheki Cele replied to parliamentary questions from the DA. In a written reply to the National Assembly, Cele revealed that only 42 of the murders reported in the region even made it to court. ALSO READ - INFOGRAPHIC: A closer look at 2017/18 crime stats across SA Out of 151 cases of rape recorded, just 80 made it to court, with a mere five convictions. Housebreakings recorded in the town were at a whopping 828. However, just 87 made it to court and, of those, only five convictions were successful. Hijacking statistics also left much to be desired. In 27 reported cases, just five made it to court, with no convictions – making hijackings a consequence-free crime in KwaDukuza over the last year. There were also zero convictions for theft of motor vehicles, even though 106 cases were reported. Of those, only three made it to court. People 'live in constant fear' Only one person was convicted for house robbery in the 89 reported cases. DA iLembe constituency chairperson Dean Macpherson said the dismal statistics showed that the total conviction rate for the police station was sitting at a shocking 1.4%. "When one looks at each category specifically, the figures are more alarming, including a conviction rate for murder of 2.7%, rape of 6% and hijacking of 0%." According to Macpherson, during an oversight visit in June, senior management at the station "literally ran away to avoid accounting to MPs". ALSO READ: Crime stats: Call for more police for the poor as murder rate climbs "It is now clear that there is a crisis in [KwaDukuza] that requires urgent national intervention to restore law and order in this community. "The people of [KwaDukuza] live in constant fear that they will be victims of violent crimes, without a police service to assist them and a justice system that will prevent criminals from roaming the streets." Police at national, provincial and local level declined to comment, only saying that they would seek to improve the station.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  