Omega Ngema LAST week the Port Shepstone Hawks as well as members of the K9 unit busted and arrested a 30-year-old Yongama Zulu on the N2 highway near Margate for being in possession of 61 bags of dagga estimated at a street value of R374 000. Zulu (30) was allegedly transporting the drugs from the Eastern Cape to Durban at the time of his arrest and after a brief court appearance at Margate Magistrate’s Court last Wednesday he was remanded in custody. According to Port Shepstone Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo their members received information about a vehicle which was transporting dagga from Eastern Cape to Durban and set up roadblocks on the highway to catch the culprit. “Observation duties were conducted on the N2 highway and the said motor vehicle was spotted. Police tried to stop the vehicle but the driver sped-off and a high-speed chase ensued. “The accused was cornered near Margate and his vehicle was searched. Sixty one bags of dagga were found at the back of the bakkie and Zulu was subsequently arrested. Earlier this year, the Hawks also dismantled six clandestine labora Earlier this year the Hawks also dismantled six clandestine laboratories and arrested seven men aged between 27 and 39 years during an undercover operation. During this operation, which was held in conjunction with the National Intervention Unit, about 4 376 dagga plants with a street value of some R26 265 000 were confiscated. Mhlongo said the arrests, as was Zulu’s last week, are through a concerted effort from the directorate and are intelligence driven. He said while the police deal with the end-user of drugs on the street it is up to the Hawks to take care of the dealers and manufacturers. “This is not the first nor the second arrest of this nature in the area, we have had a number of them, primarily due to information received from crime intelligence. It is not by luck or fortune that we have made the arrests, therefore it should serve as a warning to criminals and chancers,” said Mhlongo. “They might not know how far we are with our investigations or the power and reach of our intelligence so they will be brought to justice at some point,” said Mhlongo. Zulu appeared in court for a bail application yesterday. A court result was not available at the time of going to print. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  