Robin Classen Image: Arrive Alive Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Dashcam footage has captured the terrifying moment a truck driver got up from his seat, left the wheel unattended and crashed his truck. In the video, tweeted by Arrive Alive on Thursday, a truck driver can be seen reaching for an item in the cabin. He eventually gets up from his seat, while the truck is in motion to find his cellphone. The truck veers off the road and despite the driver's attempts to counter-steer, the heavy vehicle rolls and crashes off-road. The incident took place on Monday. According to the driver's official accident report received by Arrive Alive, the driver said: "I was trying to get my phone on the bed behind me. It was ringing. I did this while I was driving. I'm sorry about this I should have stopped the truck." Advocate Johan Jonck of Arrive Alive said that not paying attention on the road was extremely dangerous. "The video and photos were shared on the Arrive Alive website by a concerned citizen. It is extremely scary to consider the levels of inattention on our roads," Jonck said. "This emphasises the importance of continued driver training for drivers of all classes of vehicles to avoid distractions while on the road." Frans Massyn, HR and Financial Manager at Massyn Vervoer told News24 that the company does not condone the driver's behaviour. "It is simply unheard of that someone will move away from his driving position to do something else." He said the driver was found guilty of gross negligence after a disciplinary process. "He was dismissed immediately from the company. We have also opened a criminal case against him for negligent driving at the SAPS." The accident happened at 06:00 on September 10, just after the Middelburg mall off-ramp. The driver was on-route to Nelspruit. "The driver did not sustain any injuries and luckily there were no other vehicles or people involved in the accident," Massyn said. They have incurred damages of over a million rand. Watch the video and read the driver's statements further below:    Aftermath of the crash after the Massyn Vervoer truck driver left the wheel to try and answer his cell phone. Image: Arrive Alive "Too many road users in SA drive distracted because of past experiences where 'nothing has gone wrong'. Distracted driving is a killer on our roads and needs to be addressed through continued driver training and awareness initiatives," he added.  Statement of the truck driver as documented by SAPS.  Image: Arrive Alive  Aftermath of the crash after the Massyn Vervoer truck driver left the wheel to try and answer his cell phone. Image: Arrive Alive   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  