Sesona Ngqakamba Rob Packham. (Adrian de Kock, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Western Cape police have confirmed that a 57-year-old man who was awaiting trial for murder has been arrested for allegedly breaching his bail conditions. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut said Diep River police arrested the man on Thursday night. "A 57-year-old man was arrested last night by Diep River police on a warrant of arrest for breaching his bail conditions and intimidation of witnesses, relating to a murder which was committed on 22 February 2018," said Traut. He is expected to appear in the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday, Traut added. News24 understands that the arrested man is Cape Town cool drink company manager, Rob Packham. When News24 contacted Packham's lawyer Ben Mathewson on Friday morning he said he wasn't aware of the latest development, before he ended the call. Further calls to his lawyer were forwarded to his office. His office said they could not comment on the matter because Mathewson was on leave. Packham, who worked for Twizza, was charged with the murder of his wife Gill Packham earlier this year.  He was out on bail and was under house arrest. His wife disappeared on February 22 and her body was found in the boot of a burnt-out BMW near Diep River train station.In August, News24 reported that prosecutor Brynmor Benjamin said that a copy of an indictment had been given to Packham. According to the indictment, he allegedly used a blunt object to hit Gill on the head and, with the alleged intent to obstruct the course of justice, set alight a BMW while her body was inside the vehicle. He allegedly also gave the police false information to mislead them.The Zimbabwe-born businessman, who previously worked for women's cosmetics company Estée Lauder, has also had to hand in his Audi Q5 for the investigation. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  