Kaveel Singh Miguel Louw. (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A march in honour of 9-year-old Durban boy Miguel Louw is expected to take place next week following the discovery of a decomposed body on Monday, thought to be that of the young boy. The ANC Women's League in Ward 49, Phoenix – where the body was found – is expected to host the March on September 14. Women's League branch executive committee (BEC) member in the area, Sharon Munien, told News24 on Wednesday that the community hoped to rally behind the family. "We of course feel absolutely terrible for the family. To lose a child in this way is simply unfair and we want to give them our support." Munien said, while the community was outraged, the march would be peaceful. She added that the community also planned to attend the next court appearance of 43-year-old Mohammed Ebrahim. It is alleged that Louw was last seen in the company of Ebrahim, who faces human trafficking charges. "I think we are all very angry and want to express ourselves. But this march will be one to remember the young boy and his innocence. We will attend court in October but for now, we want to help the family mourn this heavy loss." She said the march would start on Longbury Drive, where the body was found, and head to the Phoenix police station. ALSO READ: Body of little boy believed to be Miguel Louw found in Durban "We hope to hand over a memorandum basically calling for an end to this type of violence. We cannot have these crimes happening to our children." Police and a private security company had been chasing suspects in a business robbery when the body was discovered. A police Search and Rescue dog used in the robbery investigation diverted and found the body. A post mortem is being conducted on Wednesday so that the body can be identified, police said. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) added that they would "determine further action" once the body has been identified. Louw, who went missing on July 17 in Sydenham, was believed to have been kidnapped shortly after leaving school. Last week, Ebrahim was released on R2 500 bail after evidence failed to link him to the kidnapping of the boy. Although Ebrahim was released on bail, he is still in custody. It is not clear whether he failed to pay the amount or if he fears for his own safety upon being released. Video footage allegedly shows Ebrahim buying Louw KFC near his school in Rippon Road in Sydenham. However, it is not yet clear whether the boy entered a taxi with Ebrahim after visiting the KFC. He was arrested on July 28. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  