Carien Du Plessis British Prime Minister Theresa May, seen here with President Cyril Ramaphosa at round table discussions this week, is competing with China as it looks to expand its operations in Africa (Velani Ludidi, City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories British Prime Minister Theresa May would have given South
Africa a miss, were it not for South Africa's change in presidents six months
before. May's predecessor, David Cameron, planned a big visit to
Africa in July 2016 to revitalise relations. South Africa at the time was
facing a storm over state capture allegations surrounding former president
Jacob Zuma, and was not placed on Cameron's itinerary. His visit never took
place because May took over as Conservative leader earlier than anticipated. Zuma paid a state visit to the UK in 2010, but May's was the
first visit of a UK head of state since 2013, when Cameron attended former
president Nelson Mandela's funeral. "South Africa was added in because it wasn't on the
plan in 2016," a British official told City Press. "It's obvious that
South Africa was struggling in 2016 and our relationship was suffering as a
reflection of that. The relationship at the top level was nothing like it is
now." Investment-focused policy May, who travelled with a business delegation, delivered her
speech spelling out the UK's Africa investment-focused policy in Cape Town –
the same city where British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan in 1960 made his "winds
of change" speech that started a process of decolonisation and
independence for African nations. With the finalisation of Brexit negotiations imminent, May
announced an expansion of British operations on the continent, including new
missions in Mali, Chad, Lesotho and eSwatini. She also sought trade allies in
Africa as the Brexit timeline looms. An additional £4bn (R76.14bn) programme of UK investment is
set to pave the way for at least the same amount in private sector financing,
May said, with job creation at the centre of this. She also announced that the
UK wanted to become the number one in Africa among the G7 investors by 2022.
America is the current number one. China Overall, however, Britain was facing tough competition from
China, which "has been setting the pace on investment" in Africa.
Britain is still bigger than China in terms of stock, but China's flows are now
bigger. May's visit came on the eve of the Forum on China-Africa
Cooperation in Beijing, where African heads of state will be meeting with China
to discuss cooperation and investment. President Cyril Ramaphosa is also paying
a state visit to China ahead of the forum. "While we cannot compete with the economic might of
some foreign governments investing in Africa, what we can offer is long-term
investment of the very highest quality and breadth," she said, with
apparent reference to China. Ramaphosa used Tuesday's round table discussion with May and
a business delegation to invite the British to come to his investment
conference from October 25 to 27. His aim is to secure $100m (R1.4bn) in
investment. A British official, who sat in the meeting, said he was
convincing. "He was clear throughout the discussion that jobs is the
focus," he said. Land reform Asked whether Ramaphosa managed to put investor fears at
ease about the hotly debated land reform process, he said Ramaphosa raised the
issue even before he was questioned on it. Parliamentary consultations on changing the Constitution to
allow for land expropriation without compensation are under way. In her speech
May did not express an opinion on the end goal, but said the UK supported a
sound process. "We have to respect this is a South African process,"
the official said. "It's not really our business. Our interest is in
helping support a positive business environment and an environment where
investors feel confident in the security of their existing investments and
incentivised to add their investments and not detract from them." He said a lot of investors were reassured and more convinced
hearing about the process "from the horse's mouth". "It's useful in stabilising things, as they do hear
different noises from other people." Ramaphosa was "very clear about the direction he wanted
to take the debate in" and investors emerged from the meeting reassured. From South Africa's side, Ramaphosa was keen to learn from
the UK's experience in designing its National Health Service, as South Africa
was envisaging a similar project. John Battersby, director of the SA Chamber of Commerce in
the UK, said May's visit built on the relationship started at the Commonwealth
summit. Both leaders found themselves "negotiating hostile political
territory" domestically. May could offer Ramaphosa trade while Ramaphosa
could offer her "credibility and an ally in Africa who sees benefit for
South Africa in Brexit". China, the UK and South Africa could also build
joint development projects in the continent, he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  