Nosipiwo Manona, Correspondent New Nelson Mandela Bay municipality coalition celebrates outside the Eastern Cape High Court. (Nosipiwo Manona, Correspondent) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The DA's Eastern Cape leader Nqaba Bhanga vows that the party will fight back after losing its bid to overturn the ousting of Athol Trollip as Nelson Mandela Bay mayor. Speaking to a small group of DA supporters gathered outside the Eastern Cape High Court, Bhanga said the new mayor, the UDM's Mongameli Bobani, represented a minority party. He also said they would find those who betrayed them "We are going to clean our organisation. When we have cleaned our organisation, we are going to fight back," Bhanga said. It was a day of joy and tears as the DA lost the court bid to remain in control of the Nelson Mandela Bay council. READ: Trollip loses bid to overturn Nelson Mandela Bay ousting Following last week's deliberations on the legitimacy of the August 27 council meeting that unseated Trollip in absentia, the DA-led coalition took its cause to the high court to seek intervention. Judge Elna Revelas was straight to the point after reserving judgment last week. "The application is dismissed. The applicants are jointly and severally liable to pay the respondents' costs, including the costs of two counsel." The court also clarified that DA councillor Mbulelo Manyathi was still a council member. Manyathi was the sole councillor who abstained during the motions of no confidence in speaker Jonathan Lawack and Trollip. Manyathi was seemingly removed as a party member and councillor on the day of Trollip's ousting. In the interim, he remains a DA councillor until he resigns or disciplinary proceedings against him are finalised. 'We fought very hard' The court further ordered that the DA-led coalition be jointly and severally liable for the legal costs incurred by Manyathi. Trollip told supporters outside court: "We fought very hard to be the leaders in this metro." Bobani said the new coalition, which includes the ANC, UDM, AIC, UF and EFF, would continue as it had started. "We are busy with service delivery to the residents of the Bay, including Trollip. He also forms part of those residents," he said. Council Speaker Buyelwa Mafaya said she would begin the process of paying Manyathi's salary. Bobani said he was happy because Nelson Mandela Bay residents had been kept in limbo by the case. 'They knew they had a weak case' He said they knew that the DA didn't stand a chance in succeeding. "They knew all along that they had a weak case, even in the matter of Manyathi. "How can you expel a party member in the middle of a council meeting?" asked Bobani. He said the court judgment was a victory for the residents of the Bay. He added that they had been at work since August 27 to ensure that they delivered the much-needed services to the residents. "We are a moving government. We are moving with the programmes of the municipality." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  