Tshidi Madia Supra Mahumapelo (Frennie Shivambu, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANC leaders are due to visit the party in the North West yet again amid threats of court action over a recent decision to disband the provincial executive committee (PEC). In August the ANC's national executive committee (NEC) took a decision to disband former North West premier and provincial chairperson Supra Mahumapelo's PEC following a recommendation from the party's national working committee. However, four regions in the platinum-rich province – Ngaka Modiri Molema, Bojanala, Dr Kenneth Kaunda and Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati – have come out against the decision and sent a legal letter to the ANC's secretary general threatening to challenge the matter before the courts. READ: ANC North West PEC disbanded, Supra Mahumapelo removed as provincial chair "It is our clients' firm view that the NEC's decision of 31 August 2018 to disband the PEC is unlawful for failing to comply with the constitution of the ANC. In this regard the decision is underpinned by several material irregularities," wrote attorney Eric Mabuza in the letter which News24 has seen. The regions claim the NEC failed to consult branches that elected the PEC into power, this is in spite of a two-day visit undertaken by the party's highest decision-making body to the province ahead of a decision to dissolve the provincial leadership. "It is simply incomprehensible why the NEC in the absence of proper consultation and with no information before it that the PEC is dysfunctional, would disband a properly elected body, some five months before the next provincial conference," read the letter. Waiting to 'engage' with leadership Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati's regional secretary Gaolathle Kgabo confirmed to News24 that his region was one of those that sent a letter to Ace Magashule's office. "We haven't gone to court yet, we just sent a letter to the SGO (secretary general office) and are waiting to engage with leadership. We strongly feel they transgressed the ANC's own constitution in disbanding our PEC," said Kgabo. He told News24 that the NEC failed to verify members who attended its meetings when it visited the province last month and that the decision halted election preparations, which were already underway. ANC's head of presidency Zizi Kodwa had told News24 that the NEC's visit was out of concern of potential parallel processes and structures being launched in the North West. He also said there were fears that the ANC would lose control of the province at the 2019 general polls. The party's veterans' league had also asked the ANC to intervene in the North West. One NEC member confirmed that members of the committee were due to visit the province this weekend. However, ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe could not confirm this ahead of publishing. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  