Pule Letshwiti Empty classroom (PHOTO: Gallo/Getty) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Violence towards school teachers has become a cause for concern
for teachers around the country and for the department of education (DOE). Following the death of a 24-year-old teacher in North
West who was stabbed by a student and another incident where a learner
threatened a teacher with a gun in Gauteng, the South African Democratic Teachers
Union (Sadtu) have spoken out for better protection
for teachers. Sadtu
general secretary Mugwena
Maluleke tells DRUM they’ve raised the issue of security in schools in all
forums. “It dates back to 2013 when the union convened principals
to address safety issues and this was followed by community meetings,
especially in areas where they saw that schools were vulnerable,” he explains. “We’ve engaged
the DOE and we continue to highlight the plight of teachers. This has led to
the department of basic education (DBE) drafting policies to deal with violence
in schools. We are raising the matter at the bargaining table so we can root
out violence against teachers once and for all. “Teachers have resigned since
the unfortunate call by the Congress of South African Students (Cosas) for
learners
to “moer” (beat) teachers. Teachers are reasonable and love their learners but the fear is
overwhelming and we’re going to see more young teachers resign from the
teaching profession because the nation isn’t on their side,” he tells DRUM. He adds that teachers
would strike if the matter isn’t resolved. “Teachers are
targets for unruly learners who are emboldened by Cosas’ call to beat their
teachers and where parents have taken a sabbatical from parenting. Yes, we
can expect teachers striking soon if this isn’t attended to. Teachers will soon
leave schools and report to circuit offices in solidarity with each other,” he
concludes. The DBE has been made aware of all that has occurred and
released a statement following the   stabbing in North West. Minister of basic education Angie Motshekga
sent her deepest condolences to the
family of slain teacher Gadimang Daniel Mokolobate as well as the entire school
community affected by the traumatising incident and has also visited the family
of the young teacher. ”It is extremely heartbreaking to lose such a young
teacher who had so much potential in this devastating manner. He only began
teaching at the school in April this year – it truly is a tragedy,” she said. The Council of
Education Ministers (CEM) are
worried about the illegal weapons learners carry onto school premises and the disruptive
videos learners take in classrooms. “Other incidents that are deeply concerning to us as CEM
are the social ills we see continuing to creep into our schools. This includes
learners who have been searched by police at schools and found with illegal
drugs on them, as well as explicit videos made by learners and circulated on
social media,” explained Motshekga. National police
spokesperson Brigadier
Vishnu Naidoo tells DRUM they’ve been working closely with the
department of education and that a school safety plan is in place. “As at universities
the police cannot physically police in a school. But we’ve asked that school
governing bodies and educators put strict measures in place to ensure learners
don’t attend school with weapons and firearms,” he explains.      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.