Riaan Grobler President Cyril Ramaphosa, UN General Assembly President Maria Fernanda Espinosa and Secretary-General of the United Nations Antonio Guterres attend the unveiling ceremony of the Nelson Mandela Statue at the United Nations in New York.  (AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A statue of former president Nelson Mandela was unveiled at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York on Monday. This forms part of the UN declaring 2019 to 2028 as the "Nelson Mandela Decade of Peace". UN secretary general António Guterres described Mandela as a man who "embodied the highest values of the United Nations – peace, forgiveness, compassion and human dignity". President Cyril Ramaphosa said: "For the government and people of South Africa, the enthusiasm with which the international community has embraced the celebration of the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela is truly humbling." Also read: Graça Machel urges world: put egos aside and end violence But not all "people of South Africa" seemed content with the statue and took to Twitter to complain that the statue didn't resemble Madiba at all. Twitter user @Abraham59595959 said the statue "looks like it was made by Motsepe's 5-year-old nephew. No resemblance to #Mandela at all. Another #ANC tender gone wrong?" Another user, @AllenTTrading, tweeted: "If I were @CyrilRamaphosa I would have refused to part-take on this nonsense. This statue does not even look like Mandela (sic)." This is what other tweeps had to say. What you order vs what you get... ?? pic.twitter.com/OPxV3chCxi  It just shouldn’t be possible to confuse the features of the Mandela statue with those of President Jimmy Carter. pic.twitter.com/VsJbjSavR9  SA really convinced the UN that the statue we gifted them is of Mandela and not Robert De Niro. pic.twitter.com/RrCB1CUigt  They have started stealing history,look at his hair they resemble those o white men, really I tell you he's soon to be called a white president. MXM and Cyril Ramaphosa can't even see this. Jerrr  This Mandela looks like American business man.  If I were @CyrilRamaphosa I would have refused to part-take on this nonsense. This statue does not even look like Mandela. #MandelaStatue https://t.co/rlbcY8Mu3S  #SATwitter losing their heads over the #FakeMadiba at the #UN unveiling of #MandelaStatue that took place. It looks nothing like him and he has full on European features and hair. The comments...?? https://t.co/998HaJWjoo  The #Mandelastatue unveiled in New York has straight https://t.co/5TfrjrMPED only partially looks like him.Public procurement continues to embarrass the state even on international platforms.Oh well.  #MandelaStatue Not the Mandela we know that's statue looks like copy of copy of mandela  The Americans simply went ahead and replaced Nelson’s afro with full caucasian hair. They don’t see us, they never did. #MandelaStatue pic.twitter.com/G6bLX5OB1u   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  