Jan Gerber DA leader Mmusi Maimane (AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories DA leader Mmusi Maimane will not be his party's candidate to become Western Cape premier after next year's election. The DA announced the outcome of the Federal Executive Committee's (FedEx) meeting on Tuesday, stating that Maimane "decided to decline the request for him to stand as the DA’s candidate for Premier of the Western Cape," according to a statement from national spokesperson Solly Malatsi. "This was a request that required careful consideration and consultation with the relevant party structures which made the initial request to him," said Malatsi. The DA was due to announce its candidate on Sunday, but on Saturday the media was informed that the announcement had been postponed. It then emerged that Maimane was considering standing himself, taking many within the party by surprise as the DA had already embarked on a search for a premier candidate, interviewing potential candidates. Those against a Maimane for Western Cape premier campaign argue that it creates the tacit admission that the party will not win Gauteng or push the ANC under 50% nationally in the upcoming 2019 elections. This camp includes DA movers and shakers generally supportive of Maimane. The opposing camp argued that the DA has previously increased its national support when a DA leader ran for premier of the Western Cape – citing the 2009 and 2014 campaigns when Maimane's predecessor as DA leader Helen Zille became Western Cape premier. They say there is nothing to suggest it will not be the same this coming election. It seems the former camp's view held sway in the FedEx. "The DA’s national electoral objectives stand as Mr Maimane’s number one priority, and the party stands behind his commitment to build a better South Africa and stronger DA," Malatsi said. "It is essential that we grow our support across the country in order to bring change that builds one South Africa for all. Change founded on a commitment to fight corruption, create access to real, long-term jobs, overhaul the South African Police Service to make it honest and professional, secure our borders and speed up the delivery to basic services. "That is our mission, and that is where we must focus our time and effort over the course of this election, leading a new generation of leaders who can realise the potential of our great country." Later on Tuesday the FedEx will meet again to consider which candidate in the Western Cape will be selected as the DA’s candidate for premier in the province. The front runners are MEC for economic opportunites Alan Winde, DA MP and spokesperson on finance David Maynier and Western Cape leader and MEC for human settlements Bonginkosi Madikizela. The DA also announced that current Western Cape MEC for community safety Dan Plato will take over from Patricia de Lille as mayor of Cape Town. Plato and the candidate for premier will address the media on Wednesday to "deliver our vision for both the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  