Iavan Pijoos in Mafikeng Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte are accused of killing Matlhomola Jonas Mosweu. (Tiro Ramatlhatse, Gallo Images, Sowetan) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three cellphone towers located in the vicinity of the spot where a Coligny teenager was allegedly murdered, did not pick up the cellphones of the two men accused of the teen's killing. This was evidence of a cellphone expert in the North West High Court on Monday in the trial of Pieter Doorewaard 27, and Philip Schutte, 34, who are accused of the murder of 15-year-old Matlhomola Mosweu in Coligny in April, last year. The location of the accused on the day that Mosweu was allegedly killed was the focus of the court proceedings on Monday. The accused claim they caught the teenager stealing a sunflower and were on their way with him to the local police station, when he jumped off their bakkie along the way. But key state witness, Bonakele Pakisi, previously told the court that he had witnessed Mosweu being thrown from a moving vehicle. During an inspection in loco, Pakisi pointed out a spot near Rietvlei farm, where he claimed he saw the accused assaulting Mosweu. In court on Monday, senior Vodacom forensic agent Sam Hallat told the court that there were three cellphone towers in the area which Pakisi had pointed out to the court. Hallatt, a defence witness, said none of the accused's cellphones were picked up on those towers that day. This, regardless of the fact that 28 calls had been made from those cellphones the morning of the alleged killing. Earlier in the day, Vodacom expert Lynette van Zyl told the court that she had compiled two reports from cellphone data. Van Zyl testified that their data is usually 99.9% correct and could not be manipulated.   WATCH DOCUMENTARY: Stealing Sunflowers    Before proceedings got under way, Judge Ronald Hendricks adjourned twice so that defence advocate Hennie du Plessis could get his documents in order. "Your witnesses are late for court and your documents are not in full. You are wasting valuable court hours." Mosweu's parents sat unmoved in the left corner of the court as the evidence was presented. The trial continues on Tuesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  