Carien Du Plessis Former president Thabo Mbeki will advise the South African
government on how to deal with issues surrounding the upcoming election in the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), after officials there rejected outside
assistance. International Relations Minister Lindiwe Sisulu said in a
briefing this week that Mbeki was not appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa as
a special envoy to that country, but was more broadly asked to "support us
in our understanding of how to deal with the issues around the Great Lakes,
because of his vast experience and knowledge of the area". Mbeki agreed to do so. Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko said a formal
announcement would be made once the "modalities" were finalised. She
said a former president could not play the role of a special envoy, but rather
be a facilitator or a mediator. Following a report two weeks ago that Mbeki was appointed
special envoy, DRC President Joseph Kabila's foreign policy adviser, Barnabe
Kikaya bin Karubi, told local media Mbeki would not be granted accreditation
because special envoys had not served the DRC in the past. Overdue elections Government officials said Kabila and Mbeki had a cordial
relationship and spoke about the issue beforehand, but Kabila's officials were
adamant the elections should continue without any foreign assistance or
interference. The country has even refused the usual logistics assistance
from South Africa's Independent Electoral Commission to its DRC counterpart,
the Commission Électorale Nationale Indépendante (Ceni). City Press understands that, even as Ramaphosa had expressed
faith that the elections in the DRC would go ahead, officials were worried. The elections are overdue by two years because of a
government census. Officials and diplomats now fear the electronic voting
machines used for the first time could fail and halt the elections halfway
through as they had not been properly tested. Ebola outbreak An Ebola outbreak, which has claimed 77 lives so far in the
violence-prone North Kivu province, could also make it difficult to send
elections officials into some parts of the country. Even though the World
Health Organisation said the outbreak was largely contained, it could still
spread. There are fears that supporters of former vice-president
Jean-Pierre Bemba, who was barred from running in the presidential elections
because of his conviction by the International Criminal Court in March for
bribing a witness, could stage protests. Bemba walked free after his conviction
for war crimes was overturned by the court. Bemba's supporters are demanding he be allowed on the ballot
for the December 23 presidential election. He is appealing the decision to bar
him from the elections. Congo's highest court is expected to issue a ruling on Bemba's
candidacy on September 19. Another disqualified opposition leader is Moïse Katumbi, who
was found guilty in absentia of financial fraud and who faces fresh charges of "harming
the state's domestic and external security". SADC summit The disqualification of candidates came up in a meeting
between Ramaphosa and Kabila earlier in August ahead of the SA Development
Community (SADC) summit, at which Kabila assured leaders that a fair process
was being run by Ceni. Sisulu was angry that the French publicised a phone call
between Ramaphosa and President Emmanuel Macron ahead of the SADC summit. Sisulu said: "We thought the conversation was between
us and Macron, but we discovered later it was between ourselves, President Macron
and the rest of the world." The French statement said Ramaphosa and Macron had spoken
about the situation in the DRC and that Macron "reiterated his full
support for the dialogue efforts undertaken by the countries of the region, the
African Union and the subregional organisations". A government official said this created the impression that
Ramaphosa was doing that country's bidding within the DRC. But French officials
said South Africa had not indicated unhappiness with the statement before now.  TALK TO US After a two-year postponement, presidential elections in the
Democratic Republic of Congo seem set to go ahead in December. But President
Joseph Kabila does not want any outsiders at the election, not even from South
Africa. He says the election body in his country will ensure the voting is
fair. Do you agree? SMS us on 35697 using the keyword DRC and tell us what you
think. Please include your name and province. SMSes cost R1.50 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  