Mahlohonolo Magadla Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 35-year-old woman from Makhambane in KwaZulu-Natal has been arrested after abducting a baby in Nongoma on Friday. According to Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, an 18-year-old mother from Mfekayi boarded a taxi from Hlabisa Hospital to Mtubatuba town after having given birth at the hospital. It is alleged that a woman in her thirties, who was sitting behind the mother, requested to carry the one-day-old baby girl. The mother agreed. Upon their arrival at the Mtubatuba taxi rank, the said woman asked the mother to buy airtime from a nearby shop and promised to wait for her. On her return from the shop the mother realised that the woman and her new-born baby were nowhere to be found. The matter was reported to Mtubatuba police station for investigation and the docket was transferred to the KwaMsane FCS Unit for further investigation. On Monday night, the Mtubatuba community proceeded to Makhambane area after allegedly receiving information of a woman who was found in possession of a new-born baby that was not hers. Police were contacted and the woman was handed over to the police who placed her under arrest. The baby was found and the suspect was positively identified by the mother of the stolen baby as the same person who stole her child. The suspect was charged for kidnapping and will appear in the Mtubatuba Magistrates Court on Thursday. The baby was taken to a health facility for a check-up. The KZN SAPS are appealing to parents to take extra precautions when dealing with strangers. They must ensure that at all times their eyes are on their babies. Police are concerned with the high incidence of cases where parents hand over their new born babies to people who befriend them at taxi ranks and business premises.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  