Jeanette Chabalala The chairperson of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. (Picture: Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The public hearings into state capture have been postponed until further notice, it announced on Tuesday. The hearings were expected to resume on Wednesday with the testimony of former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan. The commission's chair, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, was also expected to deliver his decision on applications for leave to cross-examine witnesses this week. The commission will "pronounce on its programme moving forward" on Wednesday. So far, six witnesses have testified. During proceedings on Monday, the commission heard that Duduzane Zuma, son of former president Jacob Zuma, was prepared to give evidence before the inquiry. The head of the legal team, advocate Paul Pretorius, told Zondo that he received a letter from Duduzane Zuma's legal representative over the weekend. Subjected to unlawful arrest The letter confirmed that Zuma was ready to testify on a statement submitted to the commission by former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas. Jonas claimed the Guptas offered him R600m if he accepted the finance minister post. He also testified that Zuma drove him to the meeting with the Guptas, and that he was present during that meeting. On Thursday, advocate Dawie Joubert told the commission that Duduzane Zuma was subjected to unlawful arrest when he arrived in South Africa, for his culpable homicide case involving an accident in 2014. Joubert said at the time that "no South African should be subjected to unlawful arrest". Joubert also represents Ajay and Rajesh Gupta. "From evidence put forward by Jonas, it's clear he hasn't opened a case, yet Duduzane got arrested," Joubert argued. He also told Zondo that in his evidence, Jonas had not indicated that he laid a criminal case against anyone, however, Duduzane Zuma was arrested. Previously, Jonas told the commission he had not pressed charges against Zuma or the Guptas because he did not trust crime-fighting agencies in the country.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  