Sesona Ngqakamba School desks. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A video clip of a Grade 10 pupil giving a lap dance to another pupil, has been doing the rounds and has caught the attention of the Gauteng Department of Education. The department says it is deeply concerned about the video of the Sikhululekile Secondary School pupils. It was apparently recorded in February 2018. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said the department was disappointed by the pupils' conduct and said it has brought the school into disrepute. "Schools are institutions of teaching and learning and should be treated as such. We strongly condemn any acts of misconduct, which seek to undermine the dignity of our learning institutions," Lesufi was quoted as saying. Education department spokesperson Steve Mabona added that investigations were under way and that disciplinary processes would be held later. "We are aware that there are about three videos that were captured by Grade 10 [pupils] in February 2018 and as such, the investigation will involve the entire [pupil] population from the said grade," Mabona said. Mabona added that the outcomes of the investigation would determine the disciplinary action against all pupils who were implicated. He added that a psychosocial team has also been dispatched to the school to offer support and counselling to those affected by the incident. Mabona pointed out that the incident came after another pupil at the same school transgressed the code of conduct by using foul language and promoting engagement in sexual activities. "The said [pupil] has already appeared before a disciplinary committee and was subsequently suspended for five days," Mabona added. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  