Andile Sithole A 82-YEAR-OLD man died and his wife (77) was injured after they were attacked during a house robbery at their home in Chemsford Heights on September 8. According to Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), officers and paramedics were dispatched to the residence and upon arrival found the elderly man lying on the floor in one of the bedrooms. The deceased had injuries to his head and died at the scene. It is not clear if he was stabbed during the robbery. “The 77-year-old woman was seriously injured in the attack. She sustained multiple lacerations to her hands, an injury to her head and a ruptured eye. She was treated on scene before being transported to hospital by ambulance,” Rusa said in a statement. It alleged that the victims were asleep in their house when two men armed with knives and knobkerries entered their home. On September 11, when the Coastal Weekly visited the family, neighbours were gathered at the home and raised concerns about the increased number of home invasions in the area. However, the family refused to comment to the media and referred all media queries to the son of the deceased known as Vasu, who was not at home at the time. The family also denied media reports that the deceased was stabbed during the robbery. The family members claimed that the victim died of a heart attack. “The suspects began assaulting him when he screamed for help. His wife, who was asleep at the time, awoke when she heard her husband screaming for help. She went to his aid and was also assaulted by the two men who tied up the elderly couple and forced them into one of the bedrooms. The suspects then ransacked the home and stole an undisclosed amount of cash and jewellery before they fled,” Rusa said. Ward councillor Dolly Munien said home invasions are on the increase in Tongaat and elderly people have become soft targets . Tongaat police spokesperson Captain Patrick Ngwane said a case of murder, house robbery and attempted murder are being investigated. No arrest have been made at this stage. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  