Kailin Daniels Ronald Shaw (PE Express) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A reformed Port Elizabeth beggar and recovered alcoholic is
determined to start afresh and give back to the community through opening a
butchery. Ronald Shaw was given another chance at life when he turned
over a new leaf after battling with his addiction for years. This after the assistance of former councillor for Central,
the late Jeremy Davis, who took him for help at the South African National
Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (Sanca) and Shepherd's Field Kibbutz
rehabilitation centre. "I've been an alcoholic since school and did not care
about anything, except alcohol. That's what I lived for. I started begging on
the streets just for something to drink. I met a man who would just greet me,
but not give me any money. He asked me if I wanted to change my life and I did.
I wanted to get off the streets," Shaw said. Shaw is originally from Johannesburg and has lived on the
streets of the Free State and Cape Town before settling in Port Elizabeth. 'He changed my entire life' "I've realised that it was not the life I wanted and
always prayed for help. Before Davis found me and helped me, my body used to
depend on alcohol. I could not function properly without drinking." Shaw previously worked in a butchery as a qualified
blockman. That sparked the initiative to open his own butchery one day and to
help others. "Somebody did something for me and did not expect
anything in return, but just wanted to do something good for someone. I feel
like I owe Mr Davis for the rest of my life because he changed my entire life.
He gave me a new perspective." He and his wife are now living at Vistarus Mission Station
in Sydenham where he is striving to give back by sharing his story. "I told myself that when I was on the right path, I
would give back to the community and try to live a healthy and honest life. I
want to help those who are caught up with the same problem I had." The butchery was officially opened in early August and he
paved the way for unemployed residents by providing them with employment in his
newly-opened butchery. 'I have to give back' "While I was recovering from my addiction and working
as a blockman, I had some help in raising funds to open my own butchery. The
main objective for the butchery is to help people. All the staff working at the
butchery were unemployed before I appointed them." Shaw dedicated his butchery to Davis to show gratitude and
always be reminded to stay on the right path. Davis, who was well-known for his
efforts to return Central to its former glory, passed away earlier this year. "Mr Davis's name is written on the window of the butchery,
'For Mr Davis'. He helped people and I want to do the same. The aim is to get
people, especially the youth, off the streets, and train them as semi-skilled
blockmen. I have to give back." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  