Mxolisi Mngadi (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories KwaZulu-Natal and Cape Town residents are expected to
experience transport troubles on Tuesday morning. The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) has
indefinitely suspended all its operations in KZN following last Friday's torching
of its cars and vandalism of its property in Umlazi, south of Durban. Thousands of train commuters are expected to be left
stranded as there will be no trains in the entire province on Tuesday, Prasa
KZN spokesperson Zama Nomnganga confirmed to News24 on Monday night. READ: Prasa 'indefinetely' suspends trains in KZN Total Shutdown Working class communities across Cape Town meanwhile are
expected to take to the streets on Tuesday morning as part of a movement called
the Western Cape Total Shutdown. They will be protesting against poverty, crime and
unemployment. Organiser Gatto Wanza said residents would gather and
protest on streets leading to highways between 05:00 and 10:00. Residents and trade union members are expected to hold
protests in: Bellville, Bishop Lavis, Bonteheuwel, Langa, Steenberg, Manenberg,
Nyanga, Hanover Park, Flamingo, Freedom Square, Samora Machel, Phillipi,
Mitchell's Plain, Khayelitsha, Kensington, Factreton, Heideveld, Delft,
Kraaifontein, Ottery and Ruyterwacht. READ: Shutdown over poverty, crime planned for Cape Town roads Wanza said they did not yet have a sense of the expected
turnout. The roads expected to be affected will feed into the N2, M5 and M7
traffic. "Since the fall of Apartheid nothing has changed much
for our working class communities. Our people continue to live in abject
poverty, are facing unprecedented levels of unemployment and violence, cannot
afford food and basic necessities such as water, electricity and transport and
added to this we live in overcrowded communities because of a lack of decent
housing," the organisers said in a statement. It was their aim to continuously work on drawing in all
urban, peri-urban and rural working class communities to participate to be part
of the movement and the fight for the poor and marginalised. Western Cape traffic chief Kenny Africa said their office
was aware of the planned strike action. Mayoral committee member JP Smith told News24 on Monday that
the planned action was a public order issue and would be handled by the police. Any blocking of roads would not be allowed and would be
treated as illegal, he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  