Kaveel Singh (gettyimages) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Family members sobbed uncontrollably in Phoenix on Friday as the bodies of a mother and her two daughters were removed from their home following a triple murder. Their Longcroft Drive home was surrounded by hundreds including neighbours, bystanders and family members as police forensic teams and investigators combed the crime scene. "This is not something that you expect to happen here. I cannot believe this took place right under our noses," said one resident. It was eerily quiet at Tashmeer Mansions as the bodies were being removed. The silence was only broken by the muffled sobs of family members. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said the father of the children and husband of the woman allegedly found the bodies at around 07:30. He is thought to have been working the night shift and was not at home during the incident. Body found in cupboard "Members interviewed an Indian male who alleged that it was his family who were murdered. He arrived at his house and knocked at the door. "There was no response. He then climbed the balcony and entered the house through the back window as there are no burglar guards. That is when he found two bodies." Zwane said the bodies of the man's 44-year-old wife and 16-year-old daughter were discovered first. The body of his elder daughter, a 22-year-old, was later found in a cupboard. "Phoenix police opened three counts of murder and no arrests [have been made]. The motive for their killing is unknown at this stage." A resident in the complex who did not want to be named said there were constant patrols and good security in the area. "It is shocking that this happened. Even our security was not aware of this. They patrol the area and ensure our safety. Right now, we cannot understand how this happened. Everyone is scared and shocked." Two weeks ago the body of 9-year-old Miguel Louw was found less than a kilometre from the triple murder scene. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  