Jenna Etheridge Petina Coetzee leaves court with her lawyer William Booth. (File, Jenna Etheridge, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Cape Town woman accused of taking a hit out on her husband had made representations to the Western Cape Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) on why the case should be dropped, her lawyer William Booth said on Friday. "We believe there is no reasonable prospect of success," he said, referring to the case against Petina Coetzee. She was arrested in the parking lot of the Lansdowne railway station in October 2016, after she allegedly tried to arrange her husband Austin's murder. It was part of a sting operation following information Manenberg police officers received. She was charged with conspiracy to commit murder and released on R30 000 bail. Booth said Austin also wanted the case to be dropped and had hired a lawyer to make representations. Coetzee appeared in the Western Cape High Court on Friday, where the case was postponed to October 12 for the outcome of a decision on the representations she had made. The two have a four-year-old son. News24 previously reported that Austin wrote to the National Prosecuting Authority in March 2017 to approve reconciliation with his wife. READ: Hit targeted hubby wants wife back home This was after he absolved the State of any responsibility or culpability should something happen to him. At the time, Austin told the Western Cape DPP Rodney de Kock in a letter that he did not, for one moment, believe his wife would carry out "anything of this nature". He added that he had not been given any plausible reasons for why they could not reconcile. De Kock was told that Austin wanted to withdraw as State witness with immediate effect. The two have been married for more than 10 years. "We have never had any major disputes in our marriage and we were always together. One can ask anyone and they will tell you how close we were, and on this basis, are shocked about what has happened and cannot believe it." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  