Nkosinathi Dube KDM Mayor Ricardo Mthembu hands over title deeds to Mainipathi Ramsubug and Bhekumusa Isaac Ndlela.PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories KWADUKUZA Mayor Ricardo Mthembu, together with the KZN MEC for Human Settlements, Ravi Pillay, presided over the official handover ceremony of title deeds of Phase 2 in the Zinkwazi Siyembezi Housing Project in Darnall, last week. Over 300 beneficiaries were handed the ownership of their houses in line with the Human Settlement Department’s policy as well as the exit stage of post-1994 housing projects. Mthembu was accompanied by officials from KDM as well as local councillors. Speaking at one of the recipient’s homes, Mthembu said that they hope they will take care of their houses as they are now proud owners and must not allow anyone to take them. “I must say congratulations to the recipients more especially the women as we conclude Women’s Month. You now have a house you can call your own and I would also like to thank the MEC for gracing us with his presence and making sure that residents receive these tittle deeds,” said Mthembu. The MEC emphasised the importance of people having their fair share of the land and warned of those who mislead people about the land ownership issue. “The tittle deeds affirm more than just ownership and the houses become more than shelter to these people but more importantly give them the dignity they deserve and we hope they will look after their houses,” said Pillay. The excitement was written on the faces of the recipients as most of them are pensioners and some are child-headed households.One of the recipients, Mainipathi Ramsubug, said she is happy to finally own her home. “We are so happy today that we received our homes and to be able to call it our own. Thank you to the mayor and MEC.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  