Kaveel Singh eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede has welcomed the Moerane Commission report on political killings, promising to work with government to implement its recommendations. "Let me use this opportunity and welcome the release of [the] Moerane Commission report by the premier (Willies Mchunu) and the legislature. We will go through it and implement its recommendations with the guidance of our provincial government," she said on Tuesday. Gumede, who has largely been mum on the commission since it was set up by Mchunu in 2016, was speaking at a KwaZulu-Natal private security indaba in the city. ALSO READ: Moerane report lambasted "We are really concerned about the killing of our people, whether they are politicians or not." Gumede noted the killing of KwaNdengezi community leader and ANC branch chairperson Thulani Nxumalo earlier this month and called it "brutal". He was also the leader of the local community policing forum (CPF). "It is very saddening to see people who are protecting our communities dying. I encourage those who are leading CPFs not to be scared and continue to fight crime in communities. Instead of losing hope, we must be inspired by his death and continue with our fight against crime." Glebelands Hostel and eThekwini municipality link Gumede said she hoped police would "make arrests in his case". The eThekwini municipality has come up on numerous occasions during the commission's year-long sitting. The municipality, however, never sent a representative to the commission after it was implicated in violence in the Glebelands Hostel in Umlazi, south of Durban. ALSO READ: Government failures and greed - Moerane Commission report's damning findings A number of witnesses testified that the municipality had failed to properly undertake the administration of the 22 000-strong hostel, resulting in deadly factional fighting over the leasing of beds. The commission also visited the hostel in February after it was found to be key in the business of hiring of hitmen. There have been more than 100 deaths linked to political killings in KwaZulu-Natal in the past four years alone. The full report was released in the KwaZulu-Natal legislature last Thursday and is open to public comment.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  