Riaan Grobler PHOTO: YOU archives Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Double murder-accused Rameez Patel appeared in the Limpopo High Court in Polokwane on Monday, where his case was postponed yet again - this time to November 19. Netwerk24 reported that Patel wished to appoint new legal representation. Patel is accused of murdering his wife Fatima in April 2015. He has been in custody since September 29 last year. In a separate case, Patel is accused of murdering his mother Mahejeen in September 2017. Mahejeen was killed in her house in the Nirvana suburb, less than five minutes after Patel left the house. Nothing was stolen. Patel was out on R250 000 bail for the murder of Fatima when he was arrested for his mother's death. The Patel family, from India, came to South Africa 20 years ago and started a wholesale empire in Thohoyandou. However, they struggled to expand into other areas as some businesses had already closed. Firoz Patel, his father and the founder of the empire, was also shot and killed in 2016. The court heard that after Firoz's assassination, mistrust and war brewed between Rameez, his younger brother and late mother. At the centre of the war was said to be more than five wholesale shops and a power struggle over the family's wealth. According to police, Mahejeen had confronted her son after R1m was transferred into his personal account. According to Netwerk24, police in Polokwane would not confirm or deny that Patel was being investigated for the murder of his father-in-law more than a week ago. Yunus Mayet, the father of Patel's wife Nasreen, was shot seven times. His body was found outside Polokwane on September 8. Nothing was stolen. Patel's brother could not testify against him as planned on July 16 because he too had been shot that weekend. He survived the attack. Last week, Patel was informed that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) would provide him with a High Court date for his mother's murder trial on October 4. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  