Mxolisi Mngadi KZN Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana. (Amanda Khoza, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANC KZN provincial executive committee member Mthandeni Dlungwana has accused the EFF of being counter-revolutionaries. "Some of these counter-revolutionaries wear red berets. The red berets used to be ours. They stole them from us. They wear our own attire and sing our slogans even better than us, the owners of this revolution," he said. Dlungwana, who is also the provincial MEC for Education, was addressing SA Students' Congress (Sasco) members at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) on Tuesday evening, ahead of the Student Representative Council (SRC) elections on Wednesday. The former ANC Youth League (ANCYL) KZN chairperson took a jibe at EFF leader Julius Malema. "Some of them call themselves commanders of something. When they were disciplined by the organisation, they refused," he said. READ: EFF Student Command wins elections at DUT, MUT Malema is known as the commander-in-chief of the EFF. He was expelled from the ANC in February 2012 and was ordered to vacate his position as then president of the ANCYL. "They went to the media and said their blood was green and gold but now they say it's red," said Dlungwana. He called the EFF "copycats". "They copy and paste. We as the ANCYL resolved in 2011 that we wanted to see economic freedom in our lifetime. When they left the ANC, they started calling themselves economic freedom fighters. The red berets are ours, we must reclaim our regalia from these people," he said. "The red berets are even more dangerous because they talk the same language as us, [and] they also use the ANCYL manifesto," he warned. The EFF Students' Command (EFFSC) made inroads in the province's tertiary campuses recently by winning elections at both the Durban University of Technology (DUT) and Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT). The EFFSC took eight out of 11 seats at MUT and won all eight available seats at DUT. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  