Canny Maphanga JJ Tabane. (Loanna Hoffman, Beeld, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Radio station Power FM has officially terminated the services of Onkgopotse JJ Tabane as Power Perspective Host. "We have considered the events that led to his suspension as well as the subsequent developments and have decided to terminate our relationship with Mr Tabane on 18 September, 2018," station manager Bob Mabena said in a statement on Tuesday. Tabane was suspended by the station last week after using the station as a platform to address a personal issue by apologising to acting Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) director general Phumla Williams, News24 reported earlier. Tabane made this apology after he was thrust into the spotlight following an explosive testimony from Williams relating to then Communications Minister Faith Muthambi "wanting to steal at all costs". Tabane expressed shock tweeting "FAITH Muthambi ...this is a horror story."  He was quickly reminded however by spin doctor Chris Vick that he had worked for Muthambi during her term as the Communications Minister. "But you used to work for #faithmuthambi when she was communications minister, bro. Didn't you set up that huge advisory panel for her (the one I resigned from) and write those ridiculous opinion pieces in her name? Weren't you advising her? #StateCaptureInquiry @Powerfm987." Vick tweeted. The following day on Power Drive, both Tabane and Vick were invited to "clear it out". Tabane maintained that there was nothing wrong with the work he had done for Muthambi and explained that he was only working towards improving government communications. He had been hired in his capacity as CEO of Sgwili Media Group to convene a national task team that was meant to advise the communications ministry. He had asked Vick to be a part of that team. "Its [the national task team] job was simple: it was meant to give government recommendations on how it can improve its communication. It looked at all matters, from broadcasting, communication and media liaison," Tabane said. "My primary work in that one year I was linked to that ministry was to convene the task team, develop proposals and make sure my team supports the committee. I am not ashamed of my work at all." The following day, Tabane again addressed the issue on his own show, Power Perspective. He kicked off the show by apologising to Williams saying: "Miss Phumla I am sorry to have been complicit in your oppression. If Muthambi dare say a word of a lie in front of that commission, I will be the first one to apply to the judge to come and tell a blow-by-blow story of what was happening." The station deemed this as Tabane dealing with "a personal issue" on the Power FM platform, which subsequently led to his suspension a week later. "The main issue is that Mr Tabane committed serious material breaches of the provisions of our independent contractor agreement, rendering it impossible to continue a contractual relationship with him," Mabena explained. Tabane has been notified of his termination and the station will announce a new host once the recruitment process is finalised. Various attempts to get comment from Tabane were unsuccessful. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  