Joanie Bergh Christopher and Jayde Panayiotou. (PHOTO: Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Christopher Panayiotou, the convicted mastermind behind the murder of his wife, Jayde (28), is still desperately trying to appeal his sentence – despite the fact the court of appeals has denied him leave to appeal. On 2 November 2017, his 31st birthday, Panayiotou was found guilty of the murder of Jayde in the high court in Port Elizabeth. Judge Dayalin Chetty showed Panayiotou no mercy and sentenced him to life in prison. On 8 December 2017, Panayiotou’s legal team applied for leave to appeal the sentence. The request was heard on 17 May 2018. Advocate Terry Price (for Panayiotou) argued that Judge Chetty had been prejudiced against his client. However, Judge Chetty denied Panayiotou’s request for leave to appeal, saying another court won’t come to a different decision. He said Price’s arguments were without merit and rejected Panayiotou’s request for leave to appeal, as well as those of his fellow accused, Sinethemba Nenembe (29) and Zolani Sibeko (35). Panayiotou then approached the court of appeals in Bloemfontein but had no better luck – this court also refused to grant leave to appeal to Panayiotou, Luthando Siyoni (30), the suspected middle man, and Nenembe, who carried out the killing. The court decided an appeal would have no reasonable chance of success. But that wasn’t the end of it. Panayiotou’s attorney, Alwyn Griebenow, says his family have now decided to appeal directly to the chief judge of the appeal court in terms of Article 17. They hope in this way to get leave to appeal based on unusual circumstance as, they claim, some evidence was ignored. Griebenow says it’s going well with Panayiotou who’s serving his sentence in the St Albans prison near Port Elizabeth, and that his family are hopeful. Should their latest attempt prove unsuccessful they plan to approach the constitutional court. Jayde Panayiotou’s murder 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  