Tammy Petersen Marie Verwey's Villa Merwe guesthouse in Stellenbosch, where she was murdered. (Maygene de Wee, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A home care nurse lied on her CV to land a job taking care of the husband of a guesthouse owner she is accused of murdering, the Western Cape High Court has heard. Nicolize Geldenhuys admitted on Monday that she lied when she claimed she did not have a criminal record at the time that she applied to take care of murdered Marie Verwey's husband, who had terminal cancer. Months after the husband's death, she started looking after Marie, 80. According to Geldenhuys, she did not disclose her record because she wanted the job. Prosecutor Jacomiena Swart put it to Geldenhuys that she had a habit of being dishonest. "That's what you have been doing the whole time. You lie to get what you want." Geldenhuys is accused of armed robbery as well as the murder of the woman she affectionately called "Ma". She has admitted to planning a heist but testified that killing Verwey was never part of the plan. Verwey was killed at the Villa Merwe guesthouse in Paradyskloof in February. Her safe had been ransacked. Geldenhuys and her now ex-boyfriend Romeo Hendricks pleaded not guilty to the charges. Co-accused Enrico "Darkie" Malherbe pleaded guilty to both charges and Andre "Zibby" Coetzee only admitted to the robbery. Both their pleas were rejected. Geldenhuys' co-accused are all alleged members of the 26s gang. Geldenhuys worked for the Verwey family since 2015, caring for the guesthouse owner's husband. After his death, her services were no longer needed, until the family employed her to take care of Verwey a week before the murder. She confessed to planning the robbery after seeing Verwey's son Francois storing the octogenarian's jewellery, worth R750 000, in their safe. Swart asked Geldenhuys why she apologised to Francois earlier in her testimony. "It was because of me that everything happened. I am the one who told [Hendricks] about what I had seen [in the safe]. I take responsibility. I am very sorry," she said. READ: ‘I should have protected her’ – nurse asks murder victim’s son for forgiveness But Swart replied: "You are sorry that you were caught." "[When you contacted the Verweys] you weren't looking for work. You wanted access to their house," Swart told Geldenhuys. The accused denied this. Geldenhuys also denied that the plan had been to kill Verwey from the start so that there were no witnesses to identify her or her accomplices. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  