Alex Mitchley Morris Segapu, the Wonderboom Airport security guard supervisor who was called a k****r before being assaulted by two white men on Wednesday, told News24 he wants both men responsible arrested.WATCH A man who allegedly assaulted a Wonderboom Airport security guard supervisor appeared in court on Friday, while his son, who has also allegedly been implicated in the attack, is in hiding. In an altercation caught on CCTV cameras on Wednesday, security guard Morris Segapu sustained injuries to his body and face while he was on duty after the father and son allegedly assaulted him. WATCH:'I was just cool and polite,' says Wonderboom Airport assault victim after vicious attack The father, Hans Potgieter, made his first appearance in the Pretoria North Magistrate's Court, where he was released on a warning. The case was postponed to October 18 for further investigation. Potgieter declined to comment on whether his son would turn himself in and the reason why Segapu was attacked.  After Potgieter's court appearance, Sinoville police spokesperson Warrant Officer Johan Van Dyk said Potgieter's son, who has not been named, was in hiding. Police are trying to establish his whereabouts to arrest him. News24 spoke to Segapu on Thursday, who said that Potgieter and his son became enraged when their parking ticket would not open the boom gate. "Instead of just asking us to please help them open the gate, these guys were just shouting... They said: 'Don’t waste our time. Open the gate, we want to go out. Hey k****r open the gate,'" he said. The verbal confrontation turned to blows when Segapu asked the father to calm down. The son allegedly told Segapu: "Ek sal jou bliksem, jou f***n k**r." ("I will hit you, you f*g k***r.") "When I tried to run away to go under the boom, that boy [the son], grabbed me by my reflective jacket and they pulled me and they started hitting me," Segapu said. Potgieter and his son are facing charges of crimen injuria and assault. "Two suspects swore at the security guard, used the k-word and assaulted him,"  van Dyk said. Wonderboom Airport manager Waheed Mohamed told News24 that he was aware of the incident. "That incident is still under investigation, so it is actually a police matter. I can't comment any further at this stage," Mohamed added.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  