Correspondent iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police are investigating a case of rape after a 6-year-old girl was allegedly assaulted in a restaurant toilet. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed to News24 that a rape case was being investigated following the alleged assault at a Dros restaurant in Silverton, Pretoria, on Saturday. Dlamini said a suspect had been arrested and that the man appeared in court on Tuesday. EWN tweeted that the case was postponed to October 6. #Update The man who is accused of raping 6 year old girl at an eatery in Pretoria on Saturday case has been postponed to 6 October. He faces charges of rape, possession of drugs, intimidation and grievous bodily harm. He remains behind bars until then BD  "The incident involves a minor so I can't disclose any information about it," Dlamini told News24. Reports of the sexual assault first surfaced on Facebook, Netwerk24 reported. The post, made on September 22, reads: "I'm at Dros in Silverton en this man jus raped a six year old in the toilet…police are here, she is bleeding…the guy looks 24…apparently he was scouting her while she was playing in the kids area en waited for her to go to the toilet (sic)." Suspect assaulted On Tuesday, The Citizen reported that the man allegedly followed the girl into the women's restroom, snatched her and took her to the men's room where he raped her. According to the paper, the mother of the child could not find her and heard noises from the bathroom. She reportedly could not open the door and started making a commotion. The man eventually opened the door and was found to be naked. The child was also undressed and bleeding from the groin area. A witness told The Citizen that male patrons proceeded to assault the suspect and he had to be locked in the bathroom for his protection. According to Dlamini, the suspect was arrested once police arrived. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  