Frank Chikowore Nelson Chamisa (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Zimbabwean police have blocked the main opposition Movement for
Democratic Change party from holding its 19th anniversary celebrations this
Saturday due to a cholera outbreak that authorities say has claimed at least 25
lives in the southern African country. Initially detected in the capital Harare, authorities said the
disease was spreading fast to other parts of the troubled nation. Despite having sanctioned the event in which the MDC was
reportedly planning a mock inauguration of its leader Nelson Chamisa who
claimed victory in the July 30 polls controversially won by President Emmerson
Mnangagwa of the ruling Zanu PF party, police made a U-turn on Wednesday
evening, banning the planned celebrations. “Considering the magnitude of people that will be flocking
from all over Zimbabwe on your anniversary celebration day, it is not advisable
for thousands of people to gather in an area where there is an outbreak of a
contagious disease. Meanwhile, the intended celebration is not sanctioned,” police
said in a letter to the MDC. Zimbabwean authorities have declared a state of emergency in
the capital Harare following the cholera outbreak that has more than 3 000
people being infected with the disease. However, the MDC was quick to point fingers at Mnangagwa’s
administration accusing it of using the cholera outbreak as an excuse to ban
its activities following the disputed elections. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa
on Twitter and Facebook Spokesperson of the MDC, Jacob Mafume, told News24 that the
government banned its event despite the cholera scourge having been contained
in Harare’s populous suburbs of Glen View and Budiriro. “We are all aware that the regime is running scared of our
gatherings; they have allowed life to go on as usual as far as it pertains to
activities that are being done by the current Zanu-PF government. They have defined public gatherings as those gatherings
where the MDC is gathering,” said Mafume. Mafume said his party was taking stock of the ban before
informing its party’s structures on the way forward. However, the party later issued a statement saying it was
postponing the event to a later date. The cholera epidemic has also forced the country’s biggest
institution of higher learning, the University of Zimbabwe, to cancel a
graduation ceremony that was set to be presided over by President Mnangagwa on Friday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  