Siphelele Nketo Disabled people at the Human Rights Day event.Photo: siphelele nketo Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  MOUNT 
   Currie
   Disabled Women Organisation addressed the challenges that disabled people face at the Khanyiselani Development Trust boardroom on Monday. Those present called for government to equip them with business and work opportunities. Speaking at the event, Buleleni Ndamse, a member of Disabled People South Africa (DPSA) Eastern Cape Provincial Council, told all present not to fold their arms and do nothing. He said they need to form co-operatives, businesses and companies to contribute to the economy and to develop Kokstad. He said the physically challenged must be proud of living with their disabilies.     “We didn’t choose to be disabled, so people must accept us and treat us with respect and dignity. “Disability can be caused by diseases, accidents, disaster, poverty, crime and some people are born with disabilities,” said Ndamse. He condemned people who kill albinos with a belief of making muthi and called for communities to protect albinos and disabled people who are being victimised. “There are families who go to pay points to accept disability grants for their disabled children and forget to provide needs of disabled children,” added Ndamse. Speaking about the Life Esidimeni tragedy, where 94 people died after the Gauteng Health Department moved mentally ill patients from Life Esidimeni and other facilities, to NGOs, he said someone needs to be held accountable.He called for another investigation as disabled people are brokenhearted by what have happened in Life Esidimeni. Ndamse said programmes for taking mentally ill people in Kokstad to psychiatric hospitals is needed for their safety and dignity. He also called on government to stop building houses that are not accessible for disabled people. Jabulani Mhlongo, the disability officer from Greater Kokstad Municipality encouraged disabled people to work hard to develop Kokstad. “We are making school uniforms for schools in Kokstad and we encourage other disabled people to join our group,” said Ntsiki Phakane, the chairperson of Mount Currie Disabled Women Organisation. Those interested can visit Khanyiselani Development Trust or contact Ntsiki Phakane on 072 135 1975.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  