WWE Live at the GrandWest Grand Arena in Cape Town on 18 April 2018. (Nardus Engelbecht/Channel24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Commuters are set for another day of pain as the countrywide bus strike rolls on, DJ Dino Michael and his wife Janine are granted bail, and banks are free to choose their own auditors, says the SA Reserve Bank in the aftermath of a KPMG scandal. Scroll through some of our top stories of the day: AfriForum piles pressure on NPA over Malema prosecution AfriForum is seeking to prosecute EFF leader Julius Malema. The National Prosecuting Authority says this move is disingenuous, while Malema described the lobby group as "bloody racists". NPA decides to prosecute Duduzane Zuma for culpable homicide The National Prosecuting Authority has decided to prosecute Duduzane Zuma for culpable homicide, it has confirmed. Shutdown: Rubber bullets and blocked entrances as protests rock Mahikeng The main road into Mahikeng, in the North West, has been blocked and rubber bullets have been fired, as protests against premier Supra Mahumapelo brought the town to a standstill. WATCH: Guard fatally wounded in North West cash-in-transit heist A group of armed men have been caught on camera robbing a cash-in-transit van in Klerksdorp, North West.  Top Cape Town DJ and wife granted bail after R2.6m drug bust at their home Popular radio and club DJ Dino Michael and his wife Janine were granted bail in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court after the Hawks found a large stash of drugs in their Tamboerskloof home. Bus strike expected to continue on Friday Commuters stranded by the nationwide bus strike will be forced again to make alternate plans, as talks at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration are not expected to get drivers back behind the wheel, the National Union of Metalworkers of SA says. SARB: Banks are free to choose their own auditors With the spotlight on scandal-hit KMPG, the South African Reserve Bank said it will not interfere in the processes banks follow in appointing auditors. The very real world of WWE wrestling It may not be for everyone, and there will always be those who shake their heads at the product, but World Wrestling Entertainment’s global popularity is undeniable. Cape Town confirmed exactly that at the Grand West Arena on Wednesday night.  Woman knocked down and dragged by taxi: ‘My life would have been so different’ It’s been seven years since the ordeal that stripped Kim McCusker of skin and muscle, her chosen career and her independence, but she’s still experiencing the fallout. Emotional domestic abuse episode on The Queen sparks conversation on Twitter An episode of The Queen flighted on Mzansi Magic on Wednesday hit a nerve with viewers. WARNING: This video contains graphic content. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  