Iavan Pijoos Violence is reportedly spreading to other towns of the North West with residents demanding that Premier Supra Mahumapelo step down. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Violent protests in Taung, North West, have claimed the life of a teenage boy, police said on Tuesday. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Sabata Mokgwabone said the 16-year-old had died during protest action on Monday. Protests have gripped parts of the North West for the past two days. A murder case has since been opened. READ: Mahikeng remains calm after violent protests Mokgwabone said protesters had looted several shops, set buildings alight and attacked police officials on Monday. He said a building was also set alight in Stella on Tuesday morning. One person had been arrested for public violence. Mokgwabone said 11 people had been arrested in Christiana for possession of suspected stolen goods. READ: Violence spreads in North West as residents demand that Supra Mahumapelo goes Protesters are calling for embattled North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo to go, after a vote of no confidence in him was postponed. This was due to the Economic Freedom Fighters going to court to demand that the vote be held via secret ballot, "to protect" African National Congress members who wanted to oust him.  It might sound level headed to say “firing Supra because of riots creates a bad precedent”. Who has the ANC fired of its own accord due to corruption, lack of delivery or feedback from community? It better start doing so, then it can create space to say the former.  My dearest @PresidencyZA @CyrilRamaphosa knowing that you have your hands full but please my Sir how many people must die in #NorthWest before #SupraMahumapelo is recalled the people are tired a 16y old has died as reported by @News24 Hear from you Mr President  It's always funny to see that people still don't realize that Cyril does what the NEC tells him to do. Stop expecting Ramaphosa' New Dawn, folks - he does what the NEC tells him to do and nothing else. #SupraMahumapelo   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  