Mxolisi Mngadi Kaizer Chiefs fans attack a security guard at the Moses Mabhida stadium in Durban. (Screen grab via SABC) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories KwaZulu-Natal police have appealed for statements from victims of the violence that erupted shortly after a soccer match at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban earlier this month. Police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker on Monday said the SAPS' provincial task team was investigating a case linked to the violence which broke out after Free State Stars beat Kaizer Chiefs 2-0 in a Nedbank Cup semi-final on April 21. "We are still appealing to those people who were injured in the violence that unfolded to come forward and provide our investigators with a statement. Many of those who were injured left after receiving medical attention and did not leave their contact details with police," he said. READ: Chiefs charged for Moses Mabhida violence He also appealed to witnesses to come forward and provide police with information "with regards to the perpetrators of the violence and destruction of property that was witnessed on that day". "An appeal is made to all members of the public who can assist the police in their investigations to urgently contact Captain Reddy on 082 458 5630 or detective Warrant Officer Mlungwana on 082 662 7764. All information will be treated with the strictest confidence," he said. Phelelani Jojisa, 34, who is accused of being among the mob of soccer fans which trashed the stadium built for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, was released from custody last Wednesday after he made an appearance at the Durban Magistrate's Court. He has been charged with pitch invasion and malicious damage to property. Magistrate Jackie Jonck postponed the matter until May 25. eThekwini metro Mayor Zandile Gumede announced that damage that resulted from the incident was estimated at R2.6m.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  