Lethiwe Makhanya PHOTO: lethiwe MakhanyaANC members during the march to the provincial legislature on Tuesday. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories AFRICAN National Congress (ANC) members at the Moses Mabhida Region have threatened to boycott elections if the corrupt politicians and officials are not removed from the offices. The members marched to the Provincial Legislature on Tuesday to ask for provincial intervention at the uMgungundlovu District as the service delivery has collapsed. Marching through the CBD these members said they are disgusted by how the public funds have been embezzled by uMgungundlovu District Municipality and its local municipalities, in particular Msunduzi Municipality. THEY DEMANDED THE INVESTIGATION OF : • R15 million that was budgeted for land acquisition for Greater Edendale. • R250 000 which was allocated to furniture that was never seen. • R11 million which is used to pay salaries of workers who are on a protracted unfair suspension who have not yet been charged for months. • Unfair dismissal of 1052 workers for political reasons. Ward 21 councillor Mntuza Mkhize who led the march said that they “have tolerated enough corruption in the municipality and can’t do it anymore.” “Since I became a councillor I never thought one day I will march against the municipality led by the ANC. “The corruption at the Msunduzi Municipality in unbearable.Today is the end of it and we will never support anyone who is involved in corruption. “We want Msunduzi Municipality’s Deputy Mayor Thobani Zuma and uMngungundlovu District Municipal Manager Dr Ray Ngcobo gone, because they do not deserve to be there. “Zuma has turned the municipality into a family thing. If they do not take these people out of the office, we will not vote. “We will go into our wards and tell people not to vote for people who will end up bringing thieves in the municipality. They can fire me if they want. We rather die fighting than to tolerate corruption,” Mkhize said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  