Algeria's President Abdelaziz Bouteflika  drinking tea as he receives Algeria's Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal  in a Paris hospital on June 12 2013 in one of the first pictures to emerge since he was hospitalised in France in April after a mini-str Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika made a rare public appearance on Monday for the inauguration of a mosque and the extension of the Algiers metro, footage broadcast on public television showed. In a wheelchair and wearing a three-piece suit, the 81-year-old head of state unveiled an inaugural plaque at the entrance of the capital's Ketchaoua mosque, which reopened after three years of renovation. Bouteflika waved with his right hand to the crowd awaiting his arrival in front of the mosque, closed since 2008 and then damaged by a powerful earthquake five years ago. The mosque, converted into a church during France's colonial rule, was renovated thanks to $8.6m in Turkish government funding. The building's Ottoman roots make it an importance piece of heritage for Turkey. Bouteflika later inaugurated an extension of the Algiers metro linking the capital's central post office to the emblematic Martyrs Square in the heart of its Old City. President Bouteflika was elected for a fourth term in 2014, a year after a stroke landed him in a Paris hospital for more than two months. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by
subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Algeria's leader for nearly two decades, Bouteflika has rarely appeared in public in recent years and his health is the subject of regular speculation. His appearance comes as the secretary general of the National Liberation Front (FLN), DJamel Ould Abbes, asked Bouteflika to run for a fifth term as head of state in presidential polls set for 2019. The request was made on Saturday at a meeting of ministers and members of parliament from the FLN, a party of which Bouteflika is the honorary president. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  