Tiyese Jeranji@Jeranji Shark Spotters need binoculars to help improve beach safety. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Shark Spotters are in need of another pair of eyes and are appealing to community members and corporates for help. To continue their work of improving beach safety, Shark Spotters need binoculars that will help them do their work of saving people’ lives even better. Shark Spotters improve beach safety by applying innovative and responsible shark safety solutions that reduce the spatial overlap between people and sharks, thereby reducing the risk of a shark bite. Trained observers (spotters), strategically located at elevated positions above high-risk shark beaches, provide an early warning system for water users, alerting them to the presence of great white sharks. Sarah Waries, project manager, says binoculars are an essential tool for ensuring the spotters can keep water users safe at the operating beaches. “Binoculars will allow the spotters to zoom in on movements in the water to confirm the species of animal, and accurately assess any potential threats near the water user area. The current binoculars the spotters have are old, low power, in a state of disrepair, and need replacing urgently. We did an assessment and we realised that the ones we have are old and there are other models that we can use that are much better and can even help us do our work even more effectively,” she says. The projects needs to buy 35 new pairs of high-powered binoculars to ensure the spotters have the best tools for the job. The cost of this will amount to approximately R60 000. In order to raise the much-needed funds, Shark Spotters have started a campaign on Backabuddy in the hope that people will support their initiative. “After testing several binoculars on the market we have found a model that offers the best value for money with powerful, bright and crisp optics. These are the Bushnell H20 10*42mm.The normal recommended retail price of these binoculars is R2390 per pair. However, Orms have generously agreed to give us a discounted rate of just R1659 per pair, equalling R58 065 in total. We are therefore appealing to the community to assist us in reaching our fundraising goal of R60 000 to purchase new binoculars for our team. We hope we will have the money in a month so that we buy the much-needed binoculars,” says Waries. Waries says they are calling on everyone to help them secure the binoculars. “This is a great project for everyone to help. At least with this you can see exactly where your money went to and what it is used for. Community safety at the beaches is very important for us but we can’t do it alone. I hope we will have individuals, corporate companies and the community pull together to help us. Please donate to this crowdfunding campaign to help us ensure that the spotters have the best possible equipment to continue keeping the beaches safe for ocean users in Cape Town.” V
  To donate, go to www.backabuddy.co.za/champion/project/spotters-binocular-fund or call 078 174 4244 for more information.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.