Struggle veteran Winnie Madikizela-Mandela has died at the age of 81, her family confirmed in a statement on Monday. Jump to
                    bottom The 11th of April will be the official memorial service, and the 14th of April will be the official funeral for the former freedom fighter.   Ramaphosa says Madikizela-Mandela remained strong and "stubborn on behalf of our people" during the apartheid era. EFF statement on the passing of mama Winnie
Mandela The EFF sends its revolutionary condolences on the passing of Mama Winnie Mandela. We send our heartfelt condolences to the family, the ANC, South Africans and all peoples of the world. Mama Winnie Mandela is the stone that the builders rejected. She is the first black female president South Africa was deprived of. Her irreplaceable contribution to the liberation of our people was a subject of both Patriarchal and white minority suppression; her well deserved, tried and tested, rise into the highest seat in the country was only suppressed by the patriarchally dominated liberation movement and its complicity with white minority establishment. They hated her because she was a black woman with her own mind and who enjoyed the collective popular confidence of masses of our people. They hated her because she never compromised her message of radical black emancipation. For denying us Winnie Mandela as the president of the Republic South Africa,  the liberation movement must bury its head in shame in this painful hour of loss. There is no doubt that in the last two decades of the liberation struggle Winnie Mandela carried the revolutionary aspirations of black communities on her shoulders. When silence, despondency, fear and political apathy triumphed over the collective spirit of emancipation following the exile of the liberation movement and the imprisonment of its leadership. It is Winnie Mandela who exhumed this collective spirit, inspiring every street, every township, every village, every town, every City and every country in the world to brave the murderous apartheid regime and once more demand the unconditional freedom of a black child. From Soweto to Selma, London to Sidney, scores of students, youth, workers and all peoples of the world joined the international anti-apartheid movement inspired by her tenacity, perseverance, bravery, daring and infectious love. From Morogoro to Lusaka many young men and women signed up in the ranks of Mkhonto WeSizwe inspired by her fighting spirit. She affirmed both the love and anger of black people; always committed to their right to defend their lives even in arms in the face of a deadly apartheid evil. We bit her farewell as the stone that the builders rejected. Her memory will live long and one day a better society, free from the patriarchal hatred that suppressed her rise to be a president, will embrace a talent black woman to lead our nation. In her name we vow to accelerate and deepens the fight against patriarchy, within our own ranks and in society in general. In her name we vow to bestow upon this land an era of economic freedom in our lifetime. One that she believed in, encouraged and commended the EFF for declaring and pursuing it. In our eyes, she is the perfect image of the Devine: she taught us to love ourselves, our country and continue the struggle for the total emancipation of our people and continent. Hamba Kahle MaNgutyana! Hamba Kahle Mkhonto We Sizwe! 'All South Africans are indebted to Mama Winnie' – Nelson Mandela Foundation The Nelson Mandela Foundation has expressed its sorrow at the passing of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who died after a long illness, at the age of 81, on Monday. Madikizela-Mandela, an anti-apartheid struggle icon, was also the former wife of late president Nelson Mandela. SACP conveys its heartfelt condolences to Comrade Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s family The South African Communist Party conveys its heartfelt condolences to the family of Nomzamo Winifred Madikizela-Mandela, our entire national liberation alliance and South Africans in general. Madikizela Mandela, 81, passed away on Monday, 2 April 2018. Comrade Winnie as she was fondly addressed was a stalwart of our struggle for liberation. She was a resolute gender transformation activist and national democratic revolutionary. Her departure from the world of the living has left South Africa poorer without her. The SACP is deeply worried that the South African revolution is losing the veterans who contributed immensely to our struggle against colonial oppression. In memory of Comrade Winnie, the African National Congress, the SACP and the whole of South Africa’s liberation movement, as well as the government should document the institutional memory that South Africa would lose without a detailed historical account of the contribution and sacrifices made by each one of our veterans to the course of freedom. This is extremely important both for young people and our future generations.  An accurate account of where our society comes from is crucial to our national vision for a non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa based on social emancipation. The contribution that Comrade Winnie made to the South African revolution, her sacrifices to the course, and on the other hand the reactionary, repressive and torturous responses she endured from the apartheid regime, can produce volumes of history, humanities and social science books. Highlighting a few aspects could produce an unintended consequence of narrowing the colossal contribution and great sacrifices.The SACP reiterates its perspective, in memory of Comrade Winnie, for the forging of a progressive women’s movement. The movement should, taking its cue from her revolutionary life and times, dedicate its focus towards ending patriarchy in our society and resolving the systemic problems of class, national and gender inequalities, unemployment, poverty and social insecurity. The working class, in particular women, are on the receiving end of the capitalist system. The movement, and indeed all peace loving South Africans, should pick up the spear, advance and deepen the second radical phase of our transition from colonialism and its legacy. The SACP says: Hamba Kahle Mkhonto! Statement by President Cyril Ramaphosa on
the passing of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Fellow South Africans, It is with a profound sense of loss and deep sadness that we have learnt of the passing away of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Even at the darkest moments of our struggle for liberation, Mam’ Winnie was an abiding symbol of the desire of our people to be free. In the midst of repression, she was a voice of defiance and resistance.In the face of exploitation, she was a champion of justice and equality. It was through marriage that she rose to prominence, but it was through her own contribution, her sacrifice and her unyielding determination that she gained the love and the respect of the nation. For many years, she bore the brunt of the senseless brutality of the apartheid state with stoicism and fortitude. Despite the hardships she faced, she never doubted that the struggle for freedom and democracy would succeed. She remained throughout her life a tireless advocate for the dispossessed and the marginalised. She was a voice for the voiceless.In the coming days, as we mourn the passing of this heroine of our struggle, let us reflect on her rich, remarkable and meaningful life. Let us draw inspiration from the struggles that she fought and the dream of a better society to which she dedicated her life. Today we have lost a mother, a leader and an icon. May her soul rest in peace. Ramaphosa: She was the voice of the voiceless. Today we have lost a mother, a comrade and a leader. South Africans mourn the passing of Mother of the Nation Tributes are pouring in for the Mother of the Nation, Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who died on Monday at the age of 81, after a long illness. Politicians were among the first to send their condolences. United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa said he was shocked at the news. #WinnieMadikizelaMandela The EFF's Adv Dali Mpofu arrives @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/OR7VNopOIB #WinnieMandela Minister of Communication Nomvula Mokonyane @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Ttj8cjAjyL #WinnieMandela More family members arrive @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/mezGuXTLSm #WinnieMandela Mlangeni: the apartheid police sent her to Brandfort in the Free State hoping the people would forget about her... the people disappointed them because we didn’t forget about her @TeamNews24 #WinnieMandela We have lost a fighter – Ntate Andrew Mlangeni @TeamNews24 Minister of communication Nomvula Mokonyane arriving at the home #WinnieMandela to pay her respects @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/dMirnztZRU Jump to
                top