Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 Residents have been warned to steer clear of the beaches at night following a murder and hijacking incident at Mnandi Beach on Sunday 8 April. A man, his wife and two other women went to the beach for a swim at 02:45 when they were attacked. It is believed the man and one of the women were sitting and chatting in a maroon VW Golf when they were approached by two men who demanded they open the car doors. The gunman then shot the 39-year-old man through the window, killing him. The men then reportedly forced his body out of the car before driving off with it. The women managed to get away without injuries. “At about 02:50 Mitchell’s Plain police attended a complaint of a shooting at Mnandi Beach. On arrival police found a man lying on the ground in the parking area. The deceased had been shot in the left side of his chest,” confirms Mitchell’s Plain police spokesperson, Captain Ian Williams. According to reports, the two women were swimming and heard the shot fired. They then hid and returned to the parking area when police arrived. The car has since been recovered. Police did bring someone in for questioning but he has since been released. The motive for the attack is unknown and police are investigating a case of murder and carjacking. No arrests have been made. Police have further offered the following safety tips for residents who plan to visit beaches and lookout points along Baden Powell Drive: . Move in a group where possible . Avoid isolated spots and park in a safe place where you can get away quickly if necessary­ . Ensure that your vehicle is locked and all windows closed . Don’t leave valuables lying on the seats . Avoid wearing jewellery and displaying cameras and other valuables in public . Be aware of your surroundings . If you don’t feel safe, trust your gut feeling and leave . Preferably choose spots where there are security officers present . If you are a victim of crime, get a description of the assailant and report the incident as soon as possible V 
  Anyone with information on the incident is urged to call the investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Billy Burrows, on 082 777 8076. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  