Voox Sonandzi Children in a jovial mood as the earth gives birth to water via the borehole system.PHOTOs: voox sonandzi Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Excitment was written all over the children’s faces as the earth gave birth to water through a borehole donated by the Gift of The Givers at Impendulo Primary School last Friday. An elated Zuziwe Mputa, the school principa, said the effort by the world known NGO, will help the school push Zero Day away. “We are concerned about the current drought and we hope this borehole will alleviate the water shortage,” said Ms Mputa. “We have been teaching children about the drought and their uncontainable excitement shows that they are relieved,” she explained. Gift of the Givers official Ali Sublay who surpervised the installation, said the borehole runs 35 meters down and pumps about 72 000 litres an hour, which adds up to 1 728 000 litres per day. The pump and filtration mechanism will only be installed next week, it was announced. “After that the water will be purified and be ready for consumption,” Sublay enthused. The borehole will cater for 1350 underprivileged learners and surrounding communities in absolutely necessary conditions. “The school has been battling with its water restrictions implementation as the learners could hardly afford to bring bread to school, so to ask them to bring a bottle of water to school was impossible,” said deputy principal Loyiso Makasi. Community leader Chief Zolile Feni said he was thrilled with the installation. “The community will also benefit from the borehole as Gift of the Givers will be installing additional taps on the boundary of the school for the community to collect drinkable water,” he said. This is the second school Gift of the Givers successfully drilled at in Khayelistha ,the first being Soyisile Primary School in Site B. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  