North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo. (Tiro Ramatlhatse, Gallo Images, Sowetan, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Supra stands defiant in the face of pressure to oust him President Cyril Ramaphosa and the ANC leadership feared a blood bath in North West if they had gone ahead and removed the defiant premier and ANC provincial chairperson Supra Mahumapelo. Read more Jacob Zuma's fiancée lives a blessed life - and will now have his baby To Nonkanyiso Conco's former college friends, her sudden lifestyle change a few years ago all makes sense now. Read more The big thirst hits Limpopo as R772m goes down the drain Hundreds of thousands of people in Giyani, Limpopo, and 55 surrounding villages have to go without water because multinational software giant SAP is in effect double-billing the water and sanitation department by hundreds of millions of rand. Read more Heavyweights Vusi Pikoli, Anwar Dramat and Gibson Njenje to join intelligence Vusi Pikoli, Anwar Dramat and Gibson Njenje are lined up to join the State Security Agency (SSA), following this week’s departure of former director-general Arthur Fraser. Read more Youth league looks to clean house Daggers have been drawn in the strongly divided ANC Youth League (ANCYL), prompting a wave of frantic pleas for an early sitting to elect a much younger and more appealing leadership before the 2019 election campaign kicks off. Read more Eskom's R67bn clawback is ' unaffordable' If the full amount of R66.6 billion in cost recoveries sought by Eskom was granted, it would result in a 35% increase in power prices, and such an increase would not be affordable to the economy. Read more Classic case of Animal Farm in the PSL Whoever said justice delayed is justice denied had never heard of our beloved Absa Premiership. Read more Regulatory board set to name and shame auditors The Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (Irba) will stop hiding the names of auditors and auditing companies found guilty of contravening its professional standards, code of conduct and the law. Read more Mondli Makhanya: Last days of Mangope Lite One couldn’t help but cast an eye back to the events of March 1994 as yet another despised Mahikeng strongman faced the wrath of the people. Read the full column No country is an island on its own Recent economic developments within and outside the country, including neighbouring Zimbabwe, have reminded us of a simple, yet profound, lesson. Read the full column Imbewu could be TV's next big thing The launch of Imbewu: The Seed is a colourful event at the Congella Studios hosted by the newly formed Grapevine Productions, and it involves many drinks and a tour of another set. Read more 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  