Christina Pitt Former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer. (File, Caryn Dolley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU), under the National Director of Public Prosecutions, has set its sights on tow-truck company owner Saleem Dawjee and former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer. The AFU instituted an application for a confiscation order against Dawjee, his businesses, Lamoer and brigadiers Collin Govender and Darius van der Ross in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday. In the application, which was instituted in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act, the unit is seeking the confiscation of various cash amounts. Dawjee, Lamoer, Govender and Van der Ross faced 109 charges of corruption, racketeering and money laundering. ALSO READ: Former Western Cape top cop found guilty of corruption In February, Dawjee was found guilty of fraud and corruption, while Lamoer, Govender and Van der Ross were found guilty of corruption charges only. While they were on trial, the AFU obtained a restraint order against them and following their conviction, the unit turned to the court to seek a confiscation order. It is the AFU's case that the men benefited from the offences of which they have been convicted. The unit is seeking the recovery of R167 163.43 from Dawjee and his businesses, while it is seeking R67 329.50 from Lamoer. From Van der Ross and Govender, the unit is seeking and R24 594.44 respectively. In court on Wednesday, Dawjee's advocate William King SC, said that the confiscation of his client's vehicle may be ordered to satisfy any amount that the prosecuting authorities deemed appropriate. Judge Rosheni Allie said that such an application would require an enquiry that would unreasonably delay sentencing. The confiscation application was postponed until May 14. "I will postpone the matter to allow the counsel the opportunity to consider the application and inform me of their intent to oppose," Allie said. The court was then cleared for psychiatrist Dr Konrad Czech’s testimony as part of in camera pre-sentencing proceedings. State advocate Billy Downer had said previously that the plea deal was in exchange for a non-custodial sentence for Lamoer. Czech's cross-examination would continue in camera on Tuesday (April 24). 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  