Derrick Spies, Correspondent Pastor Timothy Omotoso. (Nosipiwo Manona) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Charismatic Nigerian Pastor, Timothy Omotoso, and his three co-accused, made another brief appearance in the Port Elizabeth Magistrates Court on Wednesday. Omotoso, 59, wearing one of his flamboyant suits and carrying his bible, stood in the dock alongside co-accused, Zukiswa Sitho, 28, Lusanda Solani, 36, and Nobubele Mlindi, 31. Mlindi was added as a co-accused last month on charges of trafficking in persons and exploitation for sexual purposes. READ: PE woman accused of trafficking girls for pastor Omotoso granted bail State advocate, Zelda Swanepoel, said the matter had previously been postponed for the centralisation of the case to be finalised, as well as to have the charge of racketeering added, by the National Prosecuting Authority. Swanepoel said they were expecting to have feedback by next week, but that the matter had been further complicated with the addition of Mlindi. She then asked that the matter be postponed to May, 15. Swanepoel also said the application to the supreme court of appeal, lodged by Omotoso’s new defence attorney, Peter Daubermann, had been declined. Daubermann had approached the court to have Magistrate Thandeka Mashiyi’s dismissal of Omotoso’s bail application overturned. Omotoso has been in custody, awaiting trial, for nearly a year. He was arrested in dramatic fashion at Port Elizabeth International Airport by the SAPS Tactical Response Team on April, 20, 2017. The three co-accused are out on bail of R2 000 each. ALSO READ: 'We were forced to please him' – Idols SA twins on Pastor Tim Omotoso Daubermann raised his objection to the repeated postponements. "Sooner or later we will have to finalise the issue of centralisation. The state keeps making promises. It seems the national department is working at a snail’s pace." Daubermann added that under the circumstances, the defence agreed to the further postponement. The case was then postponed to May 15, for centralisation and finalisation of charges, with Mashiyi ordering that it was to be the final postponement. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  