Jeanette Chabalala Zola Skweyiya. (City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANC veteran Zola Skweyiya will be laid to rest on Saturday at the Pretoria East Cemetery, the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) said on Friday. The funeral service will be held at the local Christian Revival Church, spokesperson Phumla Williams said in a statement. Skweyiya died at the age of 75 at the Kloof Hospital in Pretoria on Wednesday, April 11. Williams said the official programme was set to start at 8:30 and that those who wished to bid farewell to the politician were welcome to attend. President Cyril Ramaphosa had accorded Skweyiya a Special Official Funeral Category 1, which includes military honours, she said."Since the President issued the declaration, South African flags across the country and abroad have been flying in a half-mast position as a sign that the country is in a mourning state." ALSO READ: Loyal Skweyiya placed hopes in ANC members despite door being shut to veterans - Mabuza In a statement on Friday, the Portfolio Committee on Social Development said it was saddened by the passing of the struggle stalwart. Skweyiya became Minister of Public Services and Administration in 1994 and then later became the Minister of Social Development in 1999. The committee said Skweyiya would be remembered for the role he played in establishing the Centre for Development Studies and the South African Legal Defence Fund. "The passing of Dr Skweyiya, whose legacy will continue to live on, is an enormous loss to South Africa," said committee chairperson Rosemary Capa. Condolence books "The committee wishes to express its heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Dr Skweyiya."Those who wish to sign the condolence book have been asked to do so at the following points: - International Ports of Entry (airports) - DIRCO Head Office at the OR Tambo Building in Pretoria - Parliament - Tuynhuys - The Union Buildings - Department of Social Development - Department of Communication - All Provincial Legislatures - All Premiers Offices    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  