Jake White (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Meet Ramaphosa’s five fin-doctors, De Lille says the DA is looking for a shortcut to get rid of her and Bus strike frustrates commuters.Here are today’s top stories: Presidency ordered to pay costs for withdrawal of state capture appeal The Presidency has been ordered to pay the costs of its application for leave to appeal a High Court judgment related to the Public Protector's report on state capture. Vicki Momberg refused leave to appeal conviction and prison sentence Former estate agent Vicki Momberg, who was convicted in connection with a racist tirade, was on Wednesday refused leave to appeal her sentence and conviction imposed by the Randburg Magistrate's Court. SA 'took strong exception' to Australian travel advisory Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu said in a statement on Wednesday that the advisory contained "misleading information about South Africa in general and, in particular, about the experiences of foreign tourists visiting South Africa". WATCH: 'It's chaos' - Cape Town commuters frustrated by bus strike Scores of commuters in the Cape Town suburb of Mitchells Plain were forced to wait for hours in long queues due to the bus strike on Wednesday morning. Ex-Bok: Jake White's plan is sharp, but it's racist... Jake White's suggestion of picking a predominantly black Springbok team to face Wales is a "sharp idea", but it would unfortunately mean a following a "racist policy". DA looking for shortcut to get rid of me - De Lille Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille has slammed the Democratic Alliance for wanting "to get rid" of her "as soon as possible", after its federal executive gave the go-ahead to a request to table a motion of no confidence against her. Ramaphosa's five fin-doctors: Meet the team tasked with selling SA to investors When President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered his maiden State of the Nation Address in mid-February, he promised to announce plans for a major investment conference. Chrysantha Palan has become the star of her graduation ceremony at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN).  Mugabes left official residences in 'terrible state': report Former president Robert Mugabe and his family left the official presidential residences in a terrible state, with leaking roofs, broken flush handles and unkempt tennis courts, a private newspaper reported. From GLOW to Dark: 5 exciting new announcements from Netflix Apart from revealing 10 new originals projects the internet TV giant also made some other exciting announcements. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  