Tiyese Jeranji@Jeranji Sergio Jonas (22) Zechariah Asia (10) with his mother Catherine Asia behind, Rayleigh van der Merwe, Darren van der Merwe (12) Brandon Matthys (13) and Liam Rhoda ready for action. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Four boys from Lavender Hill have taken it upon themselves to help feed hungry children in their community. Darren van der Merwe (12), Liam Rhoda (12), Brandon Matthys (13) and Zechariah Asia (10) wanted to make a difference in their community and they thought porridge will give other children a good start to the day. The boys, who are also part of the 1st Steenberg Scouts, decided to do something knowing that with schools being closed most of the learners wouldn’t have the meal that they usually get through the feeding schemes at school. They raised funds for their project by selling akhni. They made R600, which they used to buy the porridge and Easter eggs. They served porridge at the corner of St Peters and St Regis streets in Seawinds on Thursday last week. In the spirit of Easter, they also bought Easter eggs which they distributed to those who came for porridge. They managed to feed about 300 children. Darren’s mother, Rayleigh van der Merwe, says she is extremely proud of the boys. “What they did makes me really proud. They are young but to be able to think about something like this and think about other children is really amazing. “They asked me to help so I also called on other people to help them. We hope that this is just the start of what they are doing and they will continue to help their community,” she says. Van der Merwe adds that given the current events in the area it is heart-warming to see such an act. “Our area is volatile and people are scared to do anything. However, these boys decided to paint a different picture of our area and it brings that sense of hope in our youth. “They are the future leaders of tomorrow and to see them do something like this makes me happy and it melts my heart. They also called on other people to help so it was fun having a lot of people helping and being able to feed those that came for the serving,” she says. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  