Constable Luyolo Nojulumba holds the baby after she was flung off the roof. (Netwerk24, Lulama Zenzile,  Gallo images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories This is where the money for the Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Brandfort museum went, the Gupta family says a high court was wrong to ground their plane and a UWC professor is found dead in a swimming pool.Here are today’s top stories: EXCLUSIVE: This is where the money for the Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Brandfort museum went An audit report commissioned by the Department of Arts and Culture (DAC) found that nearly R600 000 paid to two contractors for the beleaguered Winnie Madikizela-Mandela museum project in the Free State amounted to "fruitless expenditure". Ajay Gupta himself laid complaint against SA businessman in Dubai - source Despite Ajay Gupta appearing friendly and jovial in his exchange with SA businessman Justin van Pletzen in Dubai, a source has revealed that it was Gupta himself who opened a case of invasion of privacy against Van Pletzen. 'I saved a life,' says beaming metro cop who caught baby flung from shack A Nelson Mandela Bay metro police officer says he feels "good" after catching a 1-year-old girl whose father had thrown her from their shack in Port Elizabeth. Actor falls to his death during movie shoot in Drakensberg A 39-year-old actor from Centurion, in Gauteng, died after he slipped and fell off a cliff at the Sterkspruit Waterfall in the Drakensberg while filming a movie scene. Court was wrong to ground our plane - Guptas The Gupta family have argued, in their application to appeal a high court ruling to ground their plane, that the court made a number of errors, including believing that the Canadian export bank which facilitated the lease deal would suffer reputational harm. PODCAST: The curious case of Patricia de Lille and goodbye to Mam' Winnie News24 Political Editor Mahlatse Mahlase is joined by political journalist Tshidi Madia to talk about the top stories of the week: Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's final farewell, ANC Youth League president Collen Maine's "confession", and De Lille's next move.  Semenya dedicates win to African youth South Africa's Caster Semenya dedicated her 800m gold at the Commonwealth Games to the rural youth of Africa. Professor found dead in UWC swimming pool The body of an associate professor and chairperson of the Department of English at the University of the Western Cape was found in the campus swimming pool, the institution has said. Vela Shembe is legitimate leader of Shembe Church, court rules Deputy Judge President Isaac Madondo handed down his judgment before a packed gallery on Friday. We meet the humble star behind one of TV’s most iconic female characters She's fierce and fiesty in her role as Quinn King, but Constance Zimmer actually turned down the iconic role several times. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  