Robyn Lucas (Image: Tina Brazil via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police have arrested a 25-year-old man after he ploughed into pedestrians in Toronto, Canada. Watch.

WATCH A heartbroken mom was forced to watch her home burn down with her four young kids still inside. Tina Brazil, from Missouri, US, was out for the evening with her boyfriend, Mike Andrews, when the raging blaze started at approximately 00:50 on Thursday, 19 April, reports The Sun. The mom left her 14-year-old son Tyler Otto in charge of babysitting his younger siblings, Casey Otto, 8, Max Otto, 5, and Levi Otto, 4, when the devastating tragedy occurred. According to Mirror News, when the couple came home and saw the blaze, Tina had to be held back by firefighters as she screamed: "My children! My kids, my kids!" a witness recalls. Mike also tried running into the burning house to try and save the kids but he was reportedly pinned down by approximately five firemen, as it was already too late. The Kansas Star reports that firefighters arrived at the flame-engulfed home at approximately 01:00, but were unable to enter because the back of the entire home had already collapsed. After it was safe for the firemen to enter, they discovered the bodies of the four boys and two pets. An autopsy will be performed on the children to determine their cause of death.  The devastated mom took to Facebook to write a message about each one of her sons. "My babies," Tina wrote, adding: "I don’t have any words to say how we’re all feeling . . . Tyler was my Tyler-man. Soccer and the biggest do-gooder heart I’ve ever seen. Cason bug was my smarty-pants early-talker, artist and avid reader. "Monster Max popped off with some of the funniest things ever at the most random moments and was a crazy awesome dancer, and had the biggest imagination I’ve ever seen. "Levi was my little nugget who’d say, ‘Mommy, I love you, Mommy,’ at least 50 times a day."  At a press conference, the fire department revealed the fire might’ve been caused by a nearby barbecue and most probably went unnoticed for a period of time. Fire officials also said that gusty winds made the fire grow, reports Fox News.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  