Aishah Cassiem @Aishah_Cassiem Members of Illuminate Books, from left: Justin Alexander, Lebohang Lekhoba, Joylin van Aarde, Inga Mpikwa and Jean-Pierre Higgins. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A group of passionate students from TSiBA Education have come together to assist a local school after one of its classrooms burned down last month. Joylin van Aarde, who leads a group of five second-year students under the banner of Illuminate Books, says a fundraiser book sale will commence this month in aid of rebuilding a classroom at Athlone North Primary School. “The classroom that burned down was the school’s library. “After the incident occurred, we came to the idea that we need to play a role in society by assisting the school or at least the learners to get back on their feet. The school’s principal is very enthusiastic and positive about our vision, and at the moment we are strategising ways to get funders, sponsorships, resources and capital together to complete our assignment,” says Van Aarde. The group’s idea of fundraising for the primary school comes after working on a semester course at the business college they attend. The group is offered a strong market interface through mentorships and internships at the college and they have a strong ethos of paying it forward, with an amplified impact in the communities in which they live. “We named our group Illuminate Books, after predicting a brighter future for children, youth and adults with regard to literature engagement. The main aim of the project is to have an impact in society. Our group collaborates with our strengths to sell books and the funds from the sales go towards scholarships for other students. We will also herewith help the school by using the skills and networking abilities we learn in our classrooms and implementing these in the real world.” Van Aarde says at the moment, in the group’s personal capacity of five members, with the initial objective of selling books for their assignment, together with the vision to help the school recover, they require assistance from as many people as possible. “Our initial idea came through brainstorming where we ideally wanted to source funding from various businesses and give these businesses an opportunity to showcase effective corporate social responsibility,” says Van Aarde. “We would then play the role of the intermediary between these businesses and underprivileged children who do not have access to books and education. “We invite you to support our cause to effectively add value and uplift the communities within Cape Town. “To assist us in our project, you can either purchase a book for someone in need through our buy-a-book campaign, or donate anything to us that will assist Athlone North Primary School. “We intend to make a day out of this project where all the sponsors will be invited to hand over the donation made to the school and partake in the exciting activities for the learners, as well as a platform for networking and business interaction to take place.” V 
  For more information, contact Joylin van Aarde on 062 738 5521 or email joylin.vanaarde@gmail.com. A group of passionate students from TSiBA Education have come together to assist a local school after one of its classrooms burned down last month. Joylin van Aarde, who leads a group of five second-year students under the banner of Illuminate Books, says a fundraiser book sale will commence this month in aid of rebuilding a classroom at Athlone North Primary School. “The classroom that burned down was the school’s library. “After the incident occurred, we came to the idea that we need to play a role in society by assisting the school or at least the learners to get back on their feet.” The group’s idea of fundraising for the primary school comes after working on a semester course at the business college they attend. The group is offered a strong market interface through mentorships and internships at the college and they have a strong ethos of paying it forward. Van Aarde says at the moment, in the group’s personal capacity of five members, with the initial objective of selling books for their assignment, together with the vision to help the school recover, they require assistance from as many people as possible. V 
  For more information, contact Joylin van Aarde on 062 738 5521 or email joylin.vanaarde@gmail.com. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  