(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Several senior government officials have reportedly been 
summoned by Zimbabwe's parliamentary portfolio committee on mines and energy over the missing $15 billion diamond revenue. According to reports, 
ex-president Robert Mugabe, announced in 2015 that $15bn of diamonds were spirited out of Marange, the dusty fields more than four hours' drive 
from the capital Harare which were the site of a bloody military clampdown in 2008. The privately owned NewsDay
 newspaperreported that the mines and energy portfolio committee 
which was chaired by independent lawmaker, Temba Mliswa, had summoned 
Vice President Kembo Mohadi – a state security minister at the time - 
 finance minister Patrick Chinamasa and former police boss Augustine 
Chihuri to give evidence before it. Other senior officials who 
were summoned to appear before the commission were the current Police 
Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga, home affairs ministry secretary, 
Melusi Matshiya, and his defence counterpart, Martin Rushwaya. The state owned Herald
 newspaper said that former defence minister Sydney Sekeramayi, 
ex-presidential affairs minister Didymus Mutase were also among those 
who had been summoned. 'No evidence to back Mugabe's claim' The committee's chairperson last month also told NewZimbabwe.com that Mugabe was also expected to be summoned to give evidence before the mines commission. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Mliswa, however, indicated that although the high 
ranking former and present government officials were expected to appear 
before the committee, it did not mean they were guilty of looting the 
funds. "We're not saying that they are guilty, but we would like 
to find out whether they knew about the concessions and who was running 
the concessions because all this information is very necessary," Mliswa 
was quoted as saying. This came amid reports that independent researchers had cast doubt on Mugabe's $15 billion figure. Zimbabwe journalist Nelson Banya said in a piece for ZimFact in
 March that there was 'no evidence to back up Mugabe's claim, which had
been taken up and repeated by media, politicians and civil society 
groups.' Wrote Banya: "To reach the level of earnings claimed by 
Mugabe.... Zimbabwe would have produced an average 40 million carats 
annually, output which could not go unnoticed in the industry, given its
 impact on global supply."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  