Jan Bornman Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba. (Jabu Kumalo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Mayor Herman Mashaba has condemned the murder of a Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) officer, vowing to catch those responsible. Officer Ayanda Zulu was gunned down by two armed suspects outside her house as she was leaving on Wednesday morning. The two fled with her 9mm firearm and two magazines of ammunition. Mashaba said the SA Police Service and the Johannesburg Metro Police would leave "no stone unturned to ensure we find these criminals". "It is with profound sadness that, this morning, I have learnt of the loss of another JMPD officer to senseless crime. My deepest condolences go to the families, friends and colleagues of our fallen colleague," Mashaba said in a statement. "The sad passing of our colleagues is a personal loss to me as well, as I am responsible for this government and its thousands of employees." Mashaba said the murder of any innocent person, whether a public servant or a resident, was senseless. "We will not rest until these criminals are found," he said. Member of Mayoral Committee for Public Safety Michael Sun called for a specialised task team to be formed between the metro police departments in Johannesburg and Tshwane, along with SAPS, to investigate the murder of metro police officers. "I wish to extend my sincere condolences to the families of this fallen officer and I will ensure that as the Department of Public Safety, we do all in our power to find and hold the culprit(s) to account," Sun said. The Gauteng MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane has also condemned Zulu's murder. "The province has been robbed of a selfless and dedicated officer. Her passing is not in vain and it would not weaken the morale of our police force, but will instead encourage them to do even more to continue to protect and serve our communities," said Nkosi-Malobane. Nkosi-Malobane mentioned that 12 metro police officers had died in the line of duty over the last seven months. "I appeal to the criminal justice system to expedite the case and give the perpetrators the harshest sentence. This will send a strong message to the would-be perpetrators that such atrocities cannot be tolerated in our country," she said. The MEC also sent her heartfelt condolences to Zulu’s family, friends and colleagues.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  