Iavan Pijoos Sipho Charles Ndlovu,  better known as Brickz, appears in court. (PIC: Mduduzi Dzingi) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Relatives and friends of convicted rapist Sipho Charles Ndlovu, known as Brickz, are determined to rebuild the Brickz brand after his release on bail. The Roodepoort Magistrate's Court released Ndlovu on R80 000 bail on Friday morning, pending an appeal against his rape conviction. Read: Kwaito star Brickz granted R80k bail pending appeal against rape conviction Speaking outside the court, his brother Grey Mafumbu, said that the family was happy and excited to welcome him back home. "We give thanks to our legal team for putting [in the] effort and taking this case [seriously] because at some point, we were not taken seriously. But everything is alright now," Mafumbu added. He said it was important for Ndlovu to "dust himself off" and move forward. "The first thing we need to do is reconstruct the brand, which is Brickz. There were a lot of things that were put on hold because of this case." He is a firm believer in Ndlovu's innocence, but has acknowledged that, in the end, "the [court] must decide what is true and what is not true". Ndlovu's lawyer Piet du Plessis said his client would maintain his innocence and added that they had a good case on appeal. In July 2017, the court found Brickz guilty of raping a 16-year-old at his home in November 2013. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison in October 2017. Last month, the South Gauteng High Court granted him leave to appeal. A date has not been set for the appeal. While he is out on bail, Ndlovu must surrender all his passports and travel documents. He has also been prohibited from entering international ports. In addition, he cannot leave Johannesburg without informing the investigating officer and must report to the Jabulani police station every Monday and Wednesday. Du Plessis said Ndlovu was allowed to perform.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  