Bryan Habana. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The government has unlocked more billions for free higher education, a KZN man is attacked over an alleged unpaid sex worker bill and here are the royal baby name predictions. Have a look at some of our leading stories: SA Rugby pays tribute to Bryan Habana SA Rugby President, Mark Alexander, has paid tribute to record-breaking Springbok wing Bryan Habana, who has announced his retirement from the rugby. Here's how many billions government has unlocked for free higher education Government has set aside additional funding of R7.166bn in 2018 - R4.581bn for qualifying university students and R2.585bn for technical vocational education and training college students. Auditors KPMG, under fire in SA, now face US shareholder protestsKPMG, which has been under fire in SA for its audits of Gupta-owned firms and its role in the so-called rogue unit report, is facing possible shareholder protests in the US, according to the Financial Times. Proudly SA condemns Zara’s copy of local fashion brand, MaXhosa by Laduma's work The country’s “Buy Local” Campaign, Proudly South African, has condemned the apparent unauthorised replication of fashion designer, Laduma Ngxokolo's work by Spanish fashion retailer Zara. Appropriation or appreciation? I’d say this is just daylight @maxhosa intellectual property theft by @zara. There’s a big difference between taking inspiration and illegal expropriation. #Maxhosa designed and launched this #Khanyisa cardigan and sox (slide left) range globally 2014. In 2018 @zara shamelessly copied the design as is and put in retail in earlier this month. As a global #African I understand that inspiration is global and no one has universal rights, but theft on the other hand should be universally condemned. We appreciate that Africa’s rich culture is now ‘en vogue’ but not at all costs. But our protected intellectual property rights should be respected as much as we respect that of other global brands. #Maxhosa and all Africans should not take this lying down. If they can do this to a relatively well known brand like @maxhosa you can imagine what they’ve been doing to lesser known designers with little resources or recourse. Everybody in Design and retail knows it’s the foundation of Zara to replicate and sell quickly - and perhaps apologize. Fast fashion straight from the (others’) runway is how there’re fashioned. But it does not mean we all have to accept it. We should all stand up and reject such blatant intellectual property expropriation and theft. #ThebeOnBrands A post shared by  Thebe Ikalafeng (@thebeikalafeng) on Apr 23, 2018 at 8:30am PDT  'If they want war...' - public sector unions warn govt of total shutdown Public sector unions have sent a strong message to government: come back to the negotiating table to resolve salaries for employees, or face a total shutdown of the sector. KZN man attacked for 'outstanding sex worker bill' A KwaZulu-Natal man has been assaulted and robbed after a woman, thought to be a sex worker, accused him of not paying for services rendered. The bets are in! Here are the favourite royal baby name predictions The bookies are betting on what the royals will name their newborn. Kind OR Tambo policeman rescues woman from travel nightmare Meet officer Vincent from SAPS OR Tambo. A Gauteng woman was able to retrieve her handbag and its contents at OR Tambo airport thanks to a selfless act by a policeman.  The honourable thing for AfriForum to do If AfriForum changes its focus, South Africans will stop seeing them as a bunch of dangerous, greedy racists and we may even join hands with them, writes Max du Preez. ConCourt orders JSC to disclose record of deliberations on appointing judges The Constitutional Court has ruled in favour of the Helen Suzman Foundation to have the Judicial Service Commission's deliberations on appointing judges made public. Mugabe: 'Mnangagwa never invited me to Independence celebrations' Former Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe has reportedly denied reports that he rejected an invitation from President Emmerson Mnangagwa to attend this year’s Independence celebrations. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  