Byrone Athman Public Enterprises Minister Malusi Gigaba speaks to Patrick and Sandra Merrick while Home Affairs assistant Thokozani Mbatha tabulates their information. PHOTO: byrone athman Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE minister of Public Enterprises Malusi Gigaba paid a visit to the Pietermaritzburg Home Affairs office on Monday in his nation-wide “War Against Queues” campaign. Complaints about long queues and the lack of service delivery surfaced in print and social media in the recent weeks. Gigaba has signalled out the long queues present in the Home Affairs office as his number one concern and is aiming to rid this over the next few months. Many people used this visit by Gigaba to raise their concerns with him telling him that the computers present at Home Affairs were very slow and that the usually busy and slow office in Pietermaritzburg was only running smoothly because of his presence. The minister made his rounds throughout the office, greeting and engaging with people who were waiting for their identity documents. Not long after, Gigaba addressed the media responding to the queries of how he was going to tackle the various issues that plagued Home Affairs. “The main problem is that of the long queues. I met a lady now who said that she had to leave home at four [am] only to be get here at six [am]. This is because people come from far places so that they can be serviced here. We are taking matters into our hands to alleviate this issue. “We are increasing the capacity at New Hanover [office] and are establishing live capture offices at the Bulwer and Howick areas to divert some of the traffic to those offices and clients can be sourced nearer to their homes,” said Gigaba. Gigaba said that a pilot project involving banks in Johannesburg had been deemed successful and had made huge strides in shortening the waiting time and long queues. “We are hoping to roll out our “E-Home Affairs” service across Absa, FNB, Nedbank and Standard Bank over the next 12 months which is going to help those who are computer literate and young people to apply online and go to those offices to complete the process there,” said Gigaba who said in the next few months this system will be implemented. Promising that people will no longer sit in Home Affairs for more than two hours, Gigaba also addressed the issue of how some people take leave for an entire day just to obtain their documents in order to be functioning members of society. “Our singular focus is to ensure our people do not sit in long queues. We are going to win the war against queues. There is absolutely no way we are going to allow our people to be subjected to the indignity of standing in long queues at our offices,” stated Gigaba. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  