Mugabes left official residences in 'terrible state': report Former president Robert Mugabe and his family left the official presidential residences in a terrible state, with leaking roofs, broken flush handles and unkempt tennis courts, a private newspaper reported on Tuesday. State House and Zimbabwe House, which face each other across a central Harare road, are now undergoing major renovations and Mugabe's successor Emmerson Mnangagwa is yet to move in, reports the private NewsDay. Read more on this story here Zim VP 'fires all striking nurses, orders recruitment of retired graduates, retirees' Zimbabwe has fired all nurses who were on strike to demand higher salaries, in a hardline response to growing labour unrest by the country's new leadership. Several thousand nurses were sacked in a terse statement issued on Tuesday evening by Vice President Constantino Chiwenga, who accused the strikers of being "politically motivated". Patients were turned away from major hospitals this week after the nurses began their industrial action, weeks after doctors had ended their own strike. For more on this story click here Zimbabwe marks Independence Day - from Mugabe, too Celebrating Independence Day for the first time without Robert Mugabe as leader since 1980 felt like a second emancipation for some Zimbabweans on Wednesday. For others, not quite. The southern African nation still faces persistent economic problems including cash shortages and high unemployment. Major public hospitals have been shut down after the government fired more than 16 000 nurses for striking against low salaries and poor working conditions. As the first post-Mugabe elections approach in the months ahead, some find hope. For more on this story click here Nigerian students killed by tree on Cameroon school trip A falling tree at a wildlife park in northern Cameroon killed three students on a school trip, an official told the country's state radio. "Following a tornado, a tree fell on to a group" of Nigerian students staying in Bouba Ndjida national park, regional governor Jean Abate Edi'i said. Sixteen students were also injured and taken to Garoua, the capital of the Northern Region. The group of 50 students and six staff were on a school trip, according to Cameroon state radio. Read more on this story here 'Hoodlums' steal mace from Nigerian Senate: lawmakers The ceremonial mace of Nigeria's upper chamber of parliament was stolen on Wednesday, Senate leaders said, condemning the theft as an "act of treason". "Today, some hoodlums... seized the symbol of authority of the Upper Legislative Chamber, the mace," said Senate media and public affairs chairperson Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi in a statement. "This action is an act of treason, as it is an attempt to overthrow a branch of the federal government of Nigeria by force and it must be treated as such," he added. Read more on this story here WATCH: Flooding in Tanzania city leaves at least 14 dead Fourteen people have died as a result of days of torrential rains and flooding in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania's economic capital, police said Tuesday. "The balance sheet has worsened. This morning, we have reached 14 killed," city police chief Lazaro Mambosasa told reporters. For more on this story click here      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  