Robyn Lucas (Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 27-year-old woman tragically died after being embalmed in a horrific medical mishap. Ekaterina Fedyaeva, from Ulyanovsk in Russia, died after doctors administered a formalin drip – a solution containing formaldehyde – instead of saline during routine surgery on Sunday April, 1, reports The Sun. According to the New York Post, the drip is usually used to prevent the decomposition of corpses. Sadly the young woman suffered agonising pain and seizures for two days before slipping into a coma. She was then attached to a life-support machine but died at a hospital in Moscow after suffering multiple organ failure, reports The Mirror. Her devastated husband, Igor, and mother, Galina Baryshnikova, were by her side when she woke up after her surgery in the general ward. "Her legs were moving, she had convulsions, her whole body was shaking,” says Galina. "I put socks on her, then a robe, then a blanket but she was shivering to such an extent, I can’t even describe it. "No doctor came to see her although she was coming round from anaesthetic." 'Please help her. She is my only child' The bereaved mom claims doctors knew they administered formalin to her daughter. “We had no idea it was formalin. And they knew very well - and they did nothing to help. “Now I understand that formalin was simply eroding her body from inside. “People who performed the surgery already knew that they infused something wrong. They needed to take some urgent measures - but they did nothing.” Galina also said she begged doctors to assist her helpless daughter, but they refused to help her. "I begged – 'Please help her. She is my only child.’ I think they just wanted me to go away and to hide everything." After 14 hours of seeing her daughter in excruciating pain the mom went to look for doctors, found them gathered together and was told they’d made “a medical mistake”. They then administered 52 drugs to Ekaterina in an attempt to save her life but to no avail. “It is such a crime,” says Galina. “I spoke to the criminal investigator, and he told me it was negligence. “But this is pure murder.” Ekaterina was buried on Saturday April, 7 and criminal investigations are underway, reports Daily Mail. Sources: mirror.co.uk, thesun.co.uk, dailymail.co.uk, nypost.com 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  