Mugabe's son-in-law: 'I worked in hotels, cleaning toilets in US' Ex-president Robert Mugabe's son in law, Simba Chikore, has reportedly described himself as a "simple young Zimbabwean man", who struggled to finance his own education while studying in the United States. Chikore, who claimed that he was raised by God-fearing parents, was married to Mugabe's daughter Bona in 2014. According to The Standard newspaper, Chikore said that he had to take up odd jobs in the US in order to pursue his studies in aviation. For more on this story click here WATCH: Armed soldiers, police 'clash with villagers in Zim's diamond fields' - HRW Thousands of villages in Zimbabwe’s Marange diamond fields were this week reportedly met by armed soldiers and police, who teargassed them as they protested the looting of the country's diamond revenue. According to Human Rights Watch (HRW), police fired teargas canisters to disperse the demonstrators on Monday. "The police argued that the protest had not been authorised under the repressive Public Order Security Act (POSA), which severely limits freedom of association, public debate and criticism of the government," HRW said in a statement. Read more on this story here Nigerian parliament summons President Buhari over violence Nigeria's parliament has called for President Muhammadu Buhari to appear before it to explain what his government is doing to stop spiralling violence between herders and farmers in central states. Members of the lower chamber of parliament, the House of Representatives, voted Wednesday to summon Buhari over the clashes that have claimed nearly 400 lives since January. House speaker Yakubu Dogara said late Wednesday that lawmakers "passed a vote of no confidence on service chiefs and security advisers and called for their replacement". For more on this story click here 2 social workers fake death of day old baby, sell her for $3 600 Two social workers in Ghana are reportedly being investigated after they allegedly faked the death of a day-old baby and sold her for $3 600. According to GhanaWeb, the suspects - a probation officer and justice administration officer - admitted to selling the baby to a couple in the west African country. They stole the baby from the mother who had sought assistance from the social welfare department in the Ashanti region after her boyfriend allegedly abandoned her during her pregnancy. For more on this story click here Swazi villagers 'forced to drink water with human waste' - report Residents of Mazamazama in the Shiselweni region in Swaziland are reportedly being forced to drink water with human waste, just a few metres away from the Royal Palace of Africa's last absolute monarch, King Mswati III. According to Swaziland News, villagers said that they were using water from a pond surrounded by human waste for domestic purposes. The report said that water challenges existed in the area despite the availability of a borehole "that cannot be utilised by residents as it is strictly reserved to provide water to the king's palace". Read more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  