Jan Bornman Peaceful protest in Phumlani Village near Lotus River. (Supplied by City of Cape Town) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories As the country braces for the national shutdown by the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu), there are sporadic unrelated protests flaring up across Gauteng. Sporadic protests are also being staged in parts of the Western Cape, where six people have been arrested. Some of the incidents have been linked to housing and service delivery issues. ROUND-UP: Protest incidents flaring up around SA The Johannesburg Metro Police Department has warned motorists that there will be road closures in the CBD between 10:00 and 14:00 on Wednesday, but roads have also been affected in other parts of Johannesburg following unrelated protests. Gauteng police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said local residents were demanding municipal services and protesting against the councilor of Ward 81 in Alexandra, north of Johannesburg. Peters said the protest was unrelated to the Saftu strike and that roads, including London Road near the N3, were closed. She said motorists were urged to find alternative routes. Protests over 'economic inclusion, wages' In another incident, Peters said about 100 protesters had gathered at the entrance of the Mall of Africa in Midrand after they were denied access into the mall by security. "The group, purported to be the Midrand Local Economic Empowerment group, planned to hand over a memorandum demanding economic inclusion and empowerment in the local economy," she said. Peters said a small group of people gathered at the Value Centre in Zandspruit, west of Johannesburg, protesting over wages. "Sector police are monitoring the situation in Zandspruit this morning where a relatively small group of people are staging a protest relating to a company wage dispute," she said. "The group is singing and dancing peacefully at the Value Centre. No incidents reported. Not related to Saftu." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  