(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Libya's national women's football team is not only struggling on
the pitch but also battling a conservative society that frowns on women playing
sports in public at all. Female athletes and women's teams have many critics in the
patriarchal Muslim country. "Go cover yourself!" "Your place is at home."
You're playing because "you have no man to educate you" – such
comments are hurled at players every time they train, said centre forward Saida
Saad. Like her teammates, she wears thick tights under her shorts so as
not to reveal too much skin. But for some critics, that's nowhere near enough. "For the love of sport, we resist," said Saad, from the
eastern city of Benghazi. "We are trying to change attitudes in
society." She joined her teammates for a training session in the capital
Tripoli's Sports City ahead of a two-leg African Cup qualifying match against
Ethiopia earlier this month. Challenges on Coach Hassan Ferjani had modest ambitions for his team – getting
them fit enough to last 90 minutes on the pitch. "Poor things, it'll be the first time they play on a big
field," he said. Just a few days ahead of the match, only 10 players made it to the
training session. Others, including some based in the United States, joined the team
in Cairo – venue for the "home" match, as world football's governing
body, FIFA, does not allow internationals in strife-torn Libya – for the
showdown with Ethiopia. They lost that match 8-0 and were thrashed 7-0 in the second leg
in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, unable to notch up a single goal. "Regardless of the final score, they have made us proud as
they have shown amazing resilience against both patriarchal culture &
violent extremism. They deserve ALL support!" Zahra Langhi, a Libyan human
rights activist, wrote on Twitter. With no women's football league in Libya, players for the national
team are selected at tournaments in schools across the country. And while training these young women to an international standard
is a daunting challenge, in many cases the hardest part is convincing their
families to let them play. Many parents of potential players flat-out forbid their daughters
from taking part. Others accept, on condition that they accompany their daughters on
their travels. Ferjani said the team's lack of resources means that is a tall
order. Faced with these obstacles, the coach said he had come close to
throwing in the towel. "What pushes me to continue is the will and the determination
of the players who want to improve their level," he said. But, he added, "the battle off the field is much more
important". * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in
your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW
News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook 'Changing mentalities' "There are many girls with talent but were unjustly barred
from playing football" because of social pressures, said Rasha Nouri, a
veteran of Libya's national team, dubbed the Knights of the Mediterranean. Nouri, 25, said she initially faced "a lot of difficulties in
this very conservative society". After she was selected during a high school tournament, her
parents encouraged her to take the sport further. "They challenged (society) alongside me and supported
me," she said. Having earned her coaching licence, she said she now hopes to
train women's youth teams and eventually start a national league. She also wants to "change mentalities via social networks and
the media", she said. Souad al-Shibani, head of women's football at the Libyan Football
Federation, told AFP the body plans to launch a programme to develop the sport,
starting with a school football league for young women. "We will try to organise matches in schools every
Saturday," she said. Shibani said she was "optimistic" about the future of
football in Libya because the younger generation was "more open and more
enthusiastic".  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  