WATCH: Mugabe's nephew jokes about his uncle's ouster... but Mugabe seems unamused A video has emerged of former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe's nephew, Leo Mugabe, trying to joke about a military "coup" that resulted in his uncle stepping down in November. In the clip, Mugabe, 94, appears to be half asleep and unimpressed by the joke that his nephew is cracking. Leo, who himself is the former chairperson of the Zimbabwe Football Association (ZIFA) tells his uncle that he was also removed from the office through a "coup". For more on this story click here 'Mugabes don't have anything to do with Zimbabwe Airways deal,' says son-in-law Former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe’s son-in-law Simba Chikore, whose name has been at the centre of a raging debate over a Zimbabwe Airways deal, has reportedly said that he "is only doing a service to his country and is not on a self-enrichment exercise". According to The Standard newspaper, Chikore, who is married to Mugabe's daughter Bona, has been at the forefront of setting up Zimbabwe Airways, an airline the government claims was being established to complement the struggling Air Zimbabwe. Read more on this story here SADC summit set to 'assess situation in Zim, Lesotho, DRC' - report Zimbabwe is reportedly on the agenda at a SADC Double Troika Summit of Heads of State and Government to be held in Angola on Monday and Tuesday. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the summit is aimed at assessing the situation and evaluating the consolidation of democracy in the region. Quoting a statement by the Angolan Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the report said that "the consolidation of democracy in the sub region will also be evaluated, especially in Madagascar, Swaziland, the DRC and Zimbabwe". Read more on this story here Zimbabwe's 'sacked' nurses return to work Thousands of Zimbabwean nurses returned to work on Monday after ending a strike, their union said, adding that fresh negotiations were expected in their stand-off with the government. Some 15 000 nurses fighting for better work conditions walked out of public hospitals a week ago. They were rapidly sacked in a hardline response from the government as it tries to prevent the spread of industrial action in the public sector. For more on this story click here Changing Swaziland's name 'won't happen overnight and won't be costly', says govt Swaziland's ministry of home affairs has reportedly said that the changing
of the country’s name to the Kingdom of eSwatini "won't happen
overnight". The ministry said this as it reacted to concerns that the renaming of the
country would have serious financial implications. King Mswati III, one of the world’s few absolute monarchs, announced
last week that his country had changed its name to eSwatini to mark 50
years since independence from British rule. "I would like to announce that Swaziland will now revert to its original
name," Mswati said during independence day celebrations that were held on
Thursday.  Read more here  Mnangagwa's Zanu-PF 'is giving rotten and bitter rice to villagers ahead of elections' – opposition Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party has reportedly been accused of distributing cups of "rotten and bitter rice" as part of its electioneering programme. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the Lucia Mativenga led People's Democratic Party (PDP) claimed that the ruling party in Zhombe, Midlands province was giving villagers "rotten and bitter cups rice" ahead of this year's elections. The PDP’s recently appointed deputy president, Benson Ntini told journalists in Bulawayo that Zanu-PF officials were abusing the villagers. For more on this story click here 'Rigging fears grip' Zim opposition as Mnangagwa 'fails to campaign' - reports Zimbabwe's first post Mugabe elections are set to be held in four months time, but President Emmerson Mnangagwa and and his deputy Constantino Chiwenga are not on the ground campaigning for polls. According to New Zimbabwe.com, this has ignited "rigging fears" among Zanu-PF opponents, who claim that the southern African country might witness a repeat of the same scenario as that of the  2013 elections when Robert Mugabe went on to post a thumping victory against his challengers when he was hardly on the ground campaigning. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  