Prince William and Kate with Prince George and Princess Charlotte. (Kensington Palace via Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The countrywide bus strike is set to escalate as new wage negotiates are to resume, the Moses Mabhida violence is blamed on poor security and a woman explains how she was duped out of R600 000 by a fake prophet. Have a look at this list of some of our top read stories: The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge welcome a baby boy The Duke and Duchess have welcomed their third child and the fifth in line to the British throne. Bus strike intensifies as unions enter into fresh negotiations It's back to the drawing board for unions and bus companies as parties re-enter into wage negotiations, which are expected to be facilitated by the Department of Labour. Everything you need to know about Wednesday’s general strike Thousands of workers are expected to take to the streets on Wednesday for a one day strike as the South African Federation of Trade Unions plans to make the country “ungovernable”. Flood warning issued for Cape Town as cold front lands A cold front is expected to make landfall in Cape Town late in the afternoon. Khoza blames inadequate security for Moses Mabhida violence PSL chairperson Irvin Khoza has blamed inadequate security for the fan violence that occurred at the Moses Mabhida Stadium.  Man in court for Moses Mabhida pitch invasion The sister of a man who appeared in court for charges related to the outbreak of violence at a soccer match on Saturday says it is unfair that he is facing the charges alone. Chiefs name interim coach to replace Komphela Kaizer Chiefs have confirmed that Patrick Mabedi will take over as head coach of the club following the resignation of Steve Komphela.  'I was scammed out of R600k by fake prophet', says woman alone and broke after being duped She visited dark rooms filled with ceremonial candles and containers of muthi, performed numerous cleansing and healing rituals all in the hope of getting help for recurring headaches and maybe finding love again. 'We put the ticket in the Bible', says Lotto winner who lives a frugal life A 30-year-old from Hartbeespoort, who went from broke to being a millionaire overnight after winning the lotto, still uses his three-year-old iPhone 6, shops at Mr Price, Pick n Pay and Spar, and refuses to go to expensive restaurants. Baby-throwing dad released on a warning The man accused of throwing his 1-year-old daughter from the roof of a shack earlier this month during municipal demolitions of illegal structures has been released on a warning by the New Brighton Magistrate's Court in Port Elizabeth. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  