(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Zimbabwean taxi driver and his assistant reportedly appeared in court for kidnapping, strangling and assaulting a police officer after he attended a scene of accident involving their vehicle and a private car. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Clayton Chirere, 29, and Godfrey Ruwodo, 36, accused the police officer of delaying them. They faced assault and kidnapping charges. Magistrate Ruramai Chitumbura heard that the two suspects kidnapped and assaulted Fanuel Mudzimiri - a police official at the Harare central police station - over what they called "being delayed for no reason as the other car was not even damaged". Mudzimiri was taking statements from the affected parties when Chirere instructed Ruwodo to drive off with the police officer, who they later assaulted and strangled with a belt. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. He was, however, able to escape when they reached a traffic light. Both suspects remained in custody pending their next court appearance on Monday. This was reportedly not the first time that a police officer was assaulted by taxi operators. According to NewsDay, a taxi driver together with his accomplice appeared in court in 2017 after they had assaulted a police officer who they accused of causing their vehicle to plunge into a shop along Third Avenue in Bulawayo. The court heard that Trymore Muparuri - a police officer stationed at Bulawayo Central Traffic – was sitting on the front seat when Arthernations Phakati, 32, and Constain Dube, 26 sped off with him. It was alleged that the accused drove towards a shop and rammed into it. The police officer disembarked from the kombi when the two accused persons started shouting at him, accusing him of causing the accident. They then started assaulting him until he was saved by his colleagues.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  