A Syrian soldier inspects the wreckage of a building described as part of the Scientific Studies and Research Centre (SSRC) compound in the Barzeh district, north of Damascus. The United States, Britain and France launched strikes against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's regime early on April 14 in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack. (AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African government has reiterated its call for the peaceful resolution of conflict in Syria, following attacks in three separate areas in the country on Friday night. The US, the UK and France launched a series of attacks on specific targets in the war-torn country and CNN reported that the coalition forces claimed that they were targeting a research laboratory and two storage facilities which were believed to be the country's chemical weapons programme sites. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) said it maintained its position that the Syrian crisis should be handled by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW). "The South African Government has noted with grave concern the airstrikes conducted by the United Kingdom, the United States and French military in the territory of the Syrian Arab Republic," Dirco spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya said. READ: UK's May to face angry lawmakers over Syria airstrikes "From the onset, when the Syrian crisis broke out, South Africa has consistently and constantly called for a peaceful resolution of the conflict. "The alleged use of chemical weapons in Syria cannot be a justification for military airstrikes in a territory of a sovereign state without the authorisation of the UNSC. In the same vein, South Africa condemns the use of chemical weapons by any party in the Syrian territory," he added.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  