SA Revenue Service. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Thandeka Gqubule says she would rather have died than have been a spy, a South African app builder has become one of the first Obama Fellows and Channel24 chats to DJ Black Coffee at Coachella 2018 Have a look at some of the stories making top headlines: DA Cape Town caucus agrees to ask for new De Lille no confidence voteThe Democratic Alliance's Cape Town caucus has resolved to write to its federal executive to ask for permission to table a new motion of no confidence in mayor Patricia de Lille. Natasha Mazzone's 'election' to DA post stands - MaimaneDemocratic
 Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane says Natasha Mazzone was "elected" and 
not appointed, to the position of second deputy federal council 
chairperson. Guptas' Saxonwold compound raided to seize assets related to Vrede dairy farm caseLaw enforcement authorities have raided the Guptas' Saxonwold compound to seize assets from those implicated in the Vrede dairy farm case, the NPA says.SARS, NPA to go after taxpayers with outstanding returnsSARS has embarked on a new initiative with the National Prosecuting Authority to prosecute non-compliant taxpayers who have failed to submit returns. Thandeka Gqubule: 'I would rather have died than have been a spy'SABC
 journalist Thandeka Gqubule, who has been accused of being a Stratcom 
agent, has threatened to go to court to apply to have intelligence 
documents declassified so that she can clear her name. Watch.  A South African app builder has just become one of the first Obama FellowsKoketso Moeti founded civil engagement platform amandla.mobi in 2014 to mobilise activists in South Africa. We chat to DJ Black Coffee at Coachella 2018Channel24 caught up with South African record producer and DJ, Black Coffee at the 2018 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival held annually in the Colorado Desert.SA fielding legend dies aged 80South Africa's Colin Bland, considered one of the great fielders of his generation, has died at the age of 80. Baby-throwing dad case postponedThe State has asked the court for a postponement as investigations continue in the case of a man accused of throwing his 1-year-old daughter from the roof of a shack.'I saved my mom's contact number as 'Gucci Grace' - Mugabe's sonZimbabwean former first lady Grace Mugabe's son has jokingly said that he saved his mother's contact number as "Gucci Grace" -  before laughing and retracting the statement. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  