Mike van Rooyen, Netwerk24 EFF leader Julius Malema (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "We are going to liberate our highways and freeways from racist whites." So said Julius Malema in response to Black Monday protests against farm murders.WATCH Can you imagine how dull South Africa would be without white people, EFF leader Julius Malema said to much laughter outside the Bloemfontein Magistrate's Court on Friday, after his case was postponed to July 27. "South Africa would be boring without whites. They have naturalised. It’s like waking up one day and there are no trees. They are part of SA, but they must share the land," he told hundreds of his supporters from the podium of a large truck on the street in front of the court, Netwerk24 reported. "We won't chase you into the sea." Whites who were born in the country were also entitled to land - just not all the land, he said. There was an awkward moment in court when Malema did not react when prosecutor JJ Mlotshwa called his name. Malema asked loudly from the public gallery if his case would be called properly. When it was, he stood in the dock before Magistrate Monde Matshaya. His case was postponed, pending the outcome of his case in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, where he is challenging the constitutionality of the Riotous Assemblies Act of 1956. He was charged under this law after he encouraged EFF members at the party's elective conference in 2014 to occupy land. "Our relationship with this land is not as visitors. Our umbilical-cord is buried here. Just like the whites who were born here, their umbilical cord is buried here. They too deserve the land, but they must be prepared to share it." Malema said there was nothing wrong with having white domestic workers and security guards. He said Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was a strong woman who was any man's equal in politics. Her struggle would carry on in the lives of EFF supporters, he added. 'Young boy killed' Mistakes were always pointed out about someone's life, such as the fact that Madikizela-Mandela was believed to have had relationships with young men, he said. "But look at the men in government. They do the same. Some of them have slept with young women, some of them have even raped young women. "It has been said that she had a young boy killed. But how many people in the struggle were killed by Oliver Tambo because they were spies? That is never spoken about."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  