(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cooler weather is predicted for the central and southern parts of the country with rain along the East Coast as the cold front passes on Thursday. Rain Rain is expected long the East Coast with a 60% chance of rain for the southeastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal as the cold front passes. Isolated showers are predicted for the rest of KwaZulu-Natal, the southern parts of Mpumalanga, and the eastern parts of the Eastern Cape. The much needed rain for the drought-stricken Western Cape clears up as the cold front moves eastwards. Temperatures Minimum temperatures will be low across most of South Africa, with cold temperatures in the interior and central and eastern parts of the Free State. Moving eastwards, moderate temperatures are expected along the coastline with warm temperatures along the East Coast. The coldest places in South Africa will be Sutherland in the Northern Cape, Bethlehem in the Free State, and Standerton in Mpumalanga, all with a minimum of 9°C. Maximum temperatures will be hot along the northern border, with warm temperatures across the central and southern parts of Limpopo, the central parts of Mpumalanga, the eastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal, and the extreme northern parts of the Northern Cape, and the extreme northern parts of the Free State. Moving westwards, temperatures will be cooler along the rest of the Northern Cape and Free State, the Western Cape, the Eastern Cape, with cold temperatures to be expected over the Eastern Cape, including the Umtata region. The hottest place in South Africa will be Skukuza in Mpumalanga, reaching a high of 36°C. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days Pretoria will experience a maximum of 27°C, while Johannesburg will have a high of 25°C. Bloemfontein will see a high of 22°C. Along the coastal regions, Cape Town will reach 19°C, Port Elizabeth 21°C and Durban will see a maximum of 24°C.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  