President Cyril Ramaphosa has just arrived to convene an urgent meeting with ANC leaders in Mahikeng where protests against North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo have brought the town to a standstill.   Jump to
                    bottom According to ANC NEC member Obed Bapela, they are still waiting for Ramaphosa to arrive. Bapela has however also confirmed that Mahumapelo has already arrived, ahead of the meeting with Ramaphosa.  Foreign shop owners, some whose shops were looted during protests, have gathered outside the venue in Mahikeng where Ramaphosa is meeting with ANC leaders.  WATCH: Buildings torched and looted in Mahikeng Ramaphosa meeting taking place at Heritage House in Mahikeng.  ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte is also in Mahikeng.  Ramaphosa is also expected to address members of the public, most likely after he has met with ANC leaders in Mahikeng.  President Cyril Ramaphosa is also expected to address members of the public in Mafikeng about the protests in the area #MahikengProtests WATCH - Mahikeng: 'If Ramaphosa doesn't act radically, government buildings could burn' According to Cele, President Ramaphosa will be having a meeting with ANC leaders in the area at 12:00.  Police Minister Cele busy conducting a visit in the area.  One of the protesting residents in Mahikeng who was hit by rubber bullets fired by police. (Iavan Pijoos/News24) STATEMENT: Mahikeng church leaders appeal for calm Mahikeng Ministers Fellowship (MMF) on Friday called for calm and
appealed to communities to isolate the criminal element responsible for looting
as well as destruction of private, including public, properties in Mahikeng
including other parts of the North West Province.

? "We are confident that the intervention by President Cyril Ramaphosa and
the leadership of the ruling party will assist to resolve crisis and address
pertinent issues that have been raised by protestors," highlighted Senior
Pastor Moss Tlalang, Chairperson of MMF, an interdenominational fellowship of
church leaders appealing for calm. Tlalang said that President Ramaphosa has demonstrated leadership by
rushing back from his official engagements in London and prioritising the
intervention. "We pray that he will receive the necessary cooperation to address
service delivery challenges and appoint a neutral and competent authority to
speedily get to the bottom of corruption allegations that have been levelled
against provincial authorities," he stressed.  The only action Ramaphosa should take today is to recall the Premier. "Anything less would amount to ignoring the people of the North West who have suffered under this ANC administration!" - @McGluwajj "We are not part and parcel of the people who are protesting," Danville residents tell Cele. Despite this, there has still been police action in their vicinity, risking injury to residents, and children in particular.  Minister of Police Bheki Cele is addressing residents of Danville, in Mahikeng. Residents shouting at Cele while he speaks to them, vocalising their complaints about excessive police action during protests. Cele says he will sort those issues out, as residents single out specific officers and vehicles.  Minister of Police Bheki Cele has arrived in Mahikeng to address the situation.  Minister Cele:I am here to listen to your concerns. #Mahikeng #Mafikeng Visuals from the Kebothale Trading and Projects that was looted. #MahikengUnrests @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/8EqyfGOnrH Police in Mahikeng, after firing rubber bullets at protesters, have also threatened to shoot nearby journalists, shouting "Stop recording! Stop recording! Or I will shoot you!" A News24 reporter on the scene had to repeatedly shout "I'm a journalist! I'm a journalist!" while a police officer pointed his gun at her.  Police in Mahikeng threatens journalists who record them while firing rubber bullets at protesters. “Stop recording,” we are told. #MahikengUnrests @TeamNews24 Rubber bullets fired by police.  Police fire rubber bullets at protesters in Mahikeng on Friday morning. #MahikengUnrests @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/8oLa08PHLh President Ramaphosa himself is "currently on the way" to Mahikeng, according to the official SA government account.  President Ramaphosa is currently on the way to #Mahikeng to assess the situation pic.twitter.com/PNSxYBZsDa President Ramaphosa has called for calm and adherence to the rule of law in the province #Mahikeng pic.twitter.com/BrAUCpbpWf According to some reports from the scene, President Ramaphosa's motorcade has arrived in Mahikeng.  More shops looted, building and cars torched overnight in Mahikeng Police say the situation in Mahikeng has improved even as more shops were looted, and two cars were set alight overnight. Spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Sabata Mokgwabone said protesters attempted to set alight a building alight in the North West town, but police were quick to respond. Mokgwabone said protesters had also looted several shops, mostly belonging to foreign nationals. "A bottle store was looted, and a vehicle was torched at the department of public works. They also torched a vehicle and a guard house at the department of education." Reports of the town's McDonald's being torched were untrue, he said. Violence broke out in Mahikeng on Wednesday night when protesters took to the streets to call for the removal of Premier Supra Mahumapelo. On Thursday, protesters barricaded two main entrances leading into Mahikeng with burning tyres and rocks. Police used rubber bullets, stun grenades and teargas to disperse the crowds. Roads were later opened for motorists. Mokgwabone, said a man was shot dead during a high-speed chase with police in Mahikeng on Thursday, but that it was not linked to the unrest. He said the chase followed a robbery at one of the hotels in town.  Matlhotlhapelo a Mmabana Foundation mo #Mahikeng pic.twitter.com/srrRGvEtoU Police confirm 23 total arrests so far, as a result of the protests.  #sapsNW Mahikeng #ProtestAction update: 7 arrested after being found looting from a hardware store in Seweding Village. Sporadic incidents of looting reported incl at a bottle store near Mega City Shopping Centre. #SAPS maintaining presence in the area. Total arrests now 23. ME #Mahikeng The Mmabatho Cultural centre built by government has been burnt down. This is the last of the blaze left. pic.twitter.com/7N2IEdCbBO There are millions of South Africans rightfully angry and disappointed with the Government about #Corruption #Maladministration, lack of service delivery etc BUT this ??cannot be the way we solve problems. ????#Mahikeng #MahilengStrike#SupraMahumapelo pic.twitter.com/nsJroMfdWW Mahikeng Provincial Hospital. Casualty still closed. Empty parking. Only maternity & theatre are “functioning”  surgical ward left with 3 patients (who haven’t eaten since yesterday- no kitchen staff and no nursing staff) @NorthWestDOH @NorthWestZA @MahikengLM #MahikengProtest pic.twitter.com/8ErM5ZhHvY Armed police officers on the road leading into Mahikeng from Zeerust. #MahikengUnrests @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/X1Z3Fqhzs1 Both entrances leading into Mahikeng have been closed off by protesters. #MahikengUnrests @TeamNews24 WATCH: Police fire rubber bullets at protesters in Mahikeng Jump to
                top