WATCH: Mnangagwa 'is ready to accept defeat', Zim assures investors Zimbabwean Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Sibusiso Moyo has reportedly sought to assure investors and other stakeholders that President Emmerson Mnangagwa will step down if he loses the forthcoming elections to an opposition candidate. According to NewsDay, Moyo said that Mnangagwa was ready to hand over power. Moyo made the remarks on Monday at the London-based think-thank, Chatham House Africa, where he spoke about the government's plan for the renewal of Zimbabwe's international economic relations to foreign investors and other stakeholders. Read more on this story here Mugabe: Mnangagwa 'never invited me to attend Independence celebrations' Former Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, 94, has reportedly denied reports that he rejected an invitation from President Emmerson Mnangagwa to attend this year's Independence celebrations. Zimbabwe celebrated its 38th independence anniversary on April 18 in Harare. The event was attended by a number of dignitaries, including diplomats and opposition party leaders. Reports last week quoted presidential spokesperson George Charamba as saying that the nonagenarian had been officially invited to the celebrations, which were the first without him as the leader of the southern African country. Read more on this story here 'Dictatorial' VP Chiwenga 'posing a security threat' in Zimbabwe? Political opponents in Zimbabwe have reportedly said that Vice President Constantino Chiwenga is posing a "security threat" in the country "as his hand in often dictatorial government decisions has been evident". Last week, Chiwenga, the country's former military chief sacked at least 16 000 striking nurses over what he claimed was a "politically motivated" industrial action. In a terse statement, Chiwenga described the nurses' strike as "deplorable and reprehensible", as the government had released $17 million to boost their pay and allowances, a report by  AFPsaid. Read more on this story here Malawi's ex-president Joyce Banda to return after 4-year exile Malawi's former president Joyce Banda will arrive home this week after four years of self-imposed exile that saw an arrest warrant issued against her for alleged corruption, her party said on Monday. Nowa Chimpeni, a spokesperson for Banda's People's Party (PP) told local media she was returning to rebuild the party ahead of May 2019 elections. "I can confirm to our followers and Malawians at large that the former president of this country Dr Joyce Banda will be arriving in this country on Saturday," Chimpeni said.  He added that Banda intended to "reorganise her party" after many members abandoned it for the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) during her four-year absence, in which she lived in the United States, South Africa and Britain. For more on this story click here Taxi driver, assistant 'kidnap, strangle and assault police officer' A Zimbabwean taxi driver and his assistant reportedly appeared in court for kidnapping, strangling and assaulting a police officer after he attended a scene of accident involving their vehicle and a private car. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Clayton Chirere, 29, and Godfrey Ruwodo, 36, accused the police officer of delaying them. They faced assault and kidnapping charges. Magistrate Ruramai Chitumbura heard that the two suspects kidnapped and assaulted Fanuel Mudzimiri - a police official at the Harare central police station - over what they called "being delayed for no reason as the other car was not even damaged". For more on this story click here At least 21 dead in NE Nigeria Boko Haram attacks Suspected Boko Haram militants killed 21 people in separate attacks in a remote northeastern region of Nigeria, security officials and a witness told AFP on Monday. The jihadists shot dead 18 forest workers who had been collecting firewood in Borno state, close to the town of Gamboru, on the border with Cameroon on Sunday, according to a member of a local anti-militant militia in the area. "The bodies were scattered over several hundred metres, and they were mostly shot in the head or the back," another militiaman told AFP. For more on this story click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  