Tammy Petersen Students on the Bellville campus of CPUT. (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A new nanosatellite, developed by Cape Peninsula University of Technology and the French South African Institute of Technology will soon be launched into space. Watch.WATCH The Portfolio Committee on Higher Education and Training has met with the council of the Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) which was summoned to Parliament after failing to attend or make presentations to the MPs during an oversight visit last month. The portfolio committee in a statement said it had on Thursday discussed leadership instability at CPUT, student accommodation, the filling of vacancies, oversight on implementation of policies by university management, progress in addressing student and labour issues, council meetings and resolutions taken to address issues and infrastructure. Committee chairperson Connie September reportedly said she was "very concerned about the prevailing unharmonious relationship between the council and the university stakeholders". "A university by its nature is a site of the struggle of ideas. CPUT is a higher learning institution. Provide leadership and ensure that there is prevalence of a harmonious atmosphere at the university," September said. ALSO READ: 'Parliamentary committee's public mudslinging exercise unfortunate' – CPUT council The committee last month met with, among others, university management, its student representative council and employees, and were briefed on university leadership, transformation, staff shortages, the National Student Financial Aid Scheme at the university, student accommodation, and instabilities resulting from the #FeesMustFall campaign. On Thursday, the committee told the council to respond in writing to all the submissions that were made by stakeholders. According to the committee, the council failed to attend the oversight visit. Council chairperson Nogolide Nojozi countered that two executive committee members had been present. Nojozi said she had written to September almost a month prior to the visit to request that council not make a presentation as it felt that as an oversight body it was not best placed to provide input on administration aspects. Questions on these would be best answered by the acting vice-chancellor, she added. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  