Alex Mitchley (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Gauteng Department of Education on Wednesday said it was pleased with how the first day of online admissions for Grade 1 and 8 learners had progressed. The department said it had received 144 124 successful applications on Monday. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi switched on the 2019 Admissions Online System at the Atteridgeville community hall in Pretoria on Monday morning and, within first 10 minutes, more 10 000 successful applications were received. Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said the system had been efficient in handling the large volume of applications, but that a few challenges had been identified. READ: Gauteng education dept's online admissions goes live, with few glitches He said the issues identified were that parents had been entering home and work addresses incorrectly, that there had been delays with sending waiting list numbers, as well as issues with web operating systems. "With regards to the addresses, we appeal to parents to first select their municipality, then select the town (Johannesburg, Pretoria, Randburg, etc). Thereafter, parents can select the township or suburb in which they live. When you follow this procedure, you should not have a problem with finding your street address," said Mabona in a statement. He also urged parents to make use of web browser Google Chrome, as their site was linked to Google Maps, which made it easier with regards to the addresses. "We are experiencing delays with regards to the waiting list numbers; however, our partner, Vodacom, is assisting in this regard." Mabona added that any parent without access to the internet or who required face-to-face assistance should visit one of the decentralised application centres, or a community library. "The Department will operate 57 admissions centres across the 15 education districts." Alternatively, parents can contact the Department at the following telephone or email address: Call Centre on (011) 355 0000; Toll free number 0800 000 789; or Email: Gdeinfo@gauteng.gov.za Despite the challenges, Lesufi said the online application system was the future. "It provides for a fair and equitable opportunity for parents to apply at public schools. We are very humbled by the support and response from parents," said Lesufi. Applications will close at the end of May.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  