Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 A local father accused of killing his son earlier this year has made his first appearance in the dock as part of his official trial. Sedick Abrahams (62) faces a charge of murder for stabbing his son to death after a fight. Mitchell’s Plain police spokesperson, Captain Ian Williams, says: “On Wednesday 31 January at about 15:10, Mitchell’s Plain police received a report of a man who had been admitted to Mitchell’s Plain Day Hospital with a stab wound. “On arrival police found a deceased man with a stab wound to his chest. It was reported that the deceased, a 28-year-old, had been declared dead on arrival.” Police confirm that the man’s father was arrested in connection with the ­incident. Abrahams had never denied killing his son and had his community rallying behind him ahead of the court appearance (“Residents petition for man’s release”, People’s Post, 6 February). It is believed the man was abused by his drug-addicted son, who stole from them and was aggressive toward Abrahams. Joanie Fredericks, founder of the Mitchell’s Plain Impact Association has been enlisting the help of residents to assist and support the family during this time. She was also instrumental in getting together the petition for his release after his arrest in January. Abrahams appeared in court on Wednesday last week and the trial was postponed to May. Following the start of the trial, the Western Cape Department of Social Development (DSD) called on parents dealing with substance abuse within their homes to seek assistance from social workers. “The department spends R104m, to fund over 36 NGOs working at 51 drug and alcohol treatment sites across the province. Most of these services are outpatient based, and are located in the communities hardest hit by substance abuse,” says Social Development MEC Albert Fritz in a statement. “Parents must know that they are not alone and must seek help in tackling addiction­.” Fritz continues that the murder trial reveals how addiction within the family of a child can end in tragedy. DSD continues to deal with cases of addiction, and since 2014 a total of 35 502 clients have accessed their substance abuse services­. Tik continues to be the most used drug, followed by dagga, alcohol and heroin, which together make up 92% of all admissions to the DSD’s treatment centres. V 
  Visit the local DSD office or call the hotline on 0800 220 250.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.