Unathi Obose Ntombothando Katoyi, in mourning gear, lights the candles during a ceremony held in honour of her late husband, who was gunned down by six men last week. Captain Shereen Jones, Lieutenant-Colonel Chrisatopher Horn, and Police Commissioner Lieutenant-Colonel Thembinkosi Kula look on. PHOTO: unathi obose Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Scores of mourners converged at Salvation Church in Makhaza to bid farewell to slain Constable Ncedo Katoyi, who was shot and killed while he and a colleague were on duty, attending to a complaint in Site C last Monday. His colleague Mandilakhe Mangxola escaped with his life but was hospitalised. Katoyi, 39, who was stationed at Khayelitsha police station leaves behind his wife and two children. Speakers described him as humble person who was dedicated to his job. Khayelitsha Community Policing Forum decried the killing of police officers and urged government to tighten up its laws. Prior to the service, Minister of Police Bheki Cele had laid a wreath at the Khayelitsha police station. Station Commander, Brigadier Mkhuseli Nkwitshi said no arrests have been made yet but the police are investigation a case of murder and attempted murder. KCPF’s Nomsa Mosana has described Site C as hot-spot for crime. “We are happy that the Minister Bheki Cele promised to deploy about 60 Tactical Response Team officers at the Khayelitsha police station. We want the police who are dedicated to their job to ensure that they clean the area. We can’t afford to be ruled hooligans who don’t respect the law and our constitution,” said Mosana. Mosana added that ambulances services and Eskom employees struggled to work freely in the area because of the criminals. KDF’s Ndithini Tyhido said they are ashamed of the killing of Kotoyi because he was protecting the community, including the perpetrators. Tyhido said skewed allocation of resources was major problem in Khayelitsha. MEC for Community Safety Dan Plato said it was painful to see Katoyi’s children growing without a father. He vowed to work with Bheki Cele to fight crime. “The violence in the Western Cape in certain areas is just too much ... I pledge my support to Minister Cele as united front. We must overcome the scourge of violence and lawlessness in the Cape Flats,” he said. Police Minister Bheki Cele described the killing of police officers as attacking the constitution. He said he won’t allow criminals to dominate the society. “The space is too small and cannot be shared ... Somebody has to give way, but it should not be the police. We will squeeze the space for criminals.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  