Tarryn Josephs PHOTO: Facebook/Marty Martinez Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 43-year-old mother of two died on Tuesday after she was partially sucked out of an airplane window when the aircraft’s engine exploded. Jennifer Riordan, from New Mexico in the US, was on her way back from a meeting when the left engine of the aircraft, a Boeing 737, exploded, the Daily Mail reports. According to witnesses two men reacted immediately when they saw Jenifer’s body being sucked through the window. The aircraft, which was travelling from New York to Dallas, was forced to make an emergency landing in Philadelphia with 144 passengers and five crew members on board. “There was blood everywhere,” one of the passengers, Marty Martinez, told CBSN. “We could feel the air from the outside. Suddenly we saw smoke coming through one of the windows. It was chaos,” he says “I just remember holding my husband's hand, and we just prayed and prayed and prayed,” said passenger Amanda Bourman from New York. “And the thoughts that were going through my head of course were about my daughters, just wanting to see them again and give them a big hug so they wouldn't grow up without parents." One of passengers, Jim Demertros, was seated three rows from the engine that exploded. He told ABC News everyone was looking at "the woman who was sitting next to the window that had blown out". "It was a pretty harrowing experience," he said, adding that the "crew did a fantastic job . . . keeping everyone calm".  Jennifer’s family released a moving tribute to her: “Jennifer Riordan has passed away as a result of previously reported events on Southwest Airlines flight #1380. Jennifer’s vibrancy, passion and love infused our community and reached across our country. Her impact on everything and everyone she touched can never be fully measured.    “But foremost, she is the bedrock of our family. She and Mike [her husband] wrote a love story unlike any other. Her beauty and love is evident through her children. We are so appreciative of the outpouring of support from family, friends and our community.”  Seven other people were injured in the accident. Sources: Daily Mail, ABC News, CBS News     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  