Reporter DAM levels in most parts of the country have shown a considerable increase recently, with the exception of the Eastern Cape. According to the Spokesperson for the Department of Water and Sanitation, Sputnik Ratau, the water levels report published by the department last week, the Eastern Cape recorded a meagre 0.1% increase, moving from 66.6% the previous week to 66.7% last week. “This is a clear sign that the province is facing serious drought and dam levels could even drop more drastically due to the changing of seasons. The Algoa Water System, which is serving the major dams in the Nelson Mandela Metro, is dropping week on week. The system decreased from 25.1% the previous week to 24.7% last week,” said Ratau. He said major dams in this system were struggling to gain more water. Impofu Dam is at 38.5% capacity, Kouga Dam is battling a lot and is at 10.9%, Swartkops Dam is at 50.7% and Loerie is the only dam with 100.3% last week. The department has appealed to the communities of Nelson Mandela Bay and Sarah Baartman municipalities to continue saving water during this period of drought. Meanwhile, the Amathole Water Supply System, serving dams in Buffalo City Municipality has shown some signs of recovery in recent weeks, improving from 88.9% the previous week to 90.4% last week. Klipplaat is standing at 70.3%, a huge improvement compared to the previous year at this time, when it was at 58.1%. Gubu Dam was at 100.8% capacity last week; Laing Dam is at 100.4%, and Rooikrantz Dam remains at 100.8%. “Another major concern is Xilinxa Dam in Butterworth, which is still as low as 25.5% and residents of this area are urged to head the calls for water conservation and take them seriously. “Water users are further reminded that Eastern Cape has been declared as a national disaster area due to acute water challenges and reduction in water usage will play a huge role in ensuring that we avoid running out of water.” – REPORTER 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  