Zim leader Mnangagwa says NO to presidential debate – report Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa's spokesperson has reportedly said that the veteran politician would not be drawn into a public presidential debate with his rival Nelson Chamisa ahead of a crunch election this year. According to NewsDay, presidential spokesperson George Charamba said that a televised presidential debate between the two leading contestants was unlikely as his boss would not entertain such an idea. For more on this story click here WATCH: Botswana's Masisi visits Ramaphosa, pays tribute to Madikizela-Mandela Botswana's new President Mokgweetsi Masisi paid a courtesy visit to South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and was expected to visit struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's home. Speaking in Pretoria on Friday, Masisi, who took over from Ian Khama on April 1, said he was in the country to strengthen bilateral relations. It is also in line with the tradition in Southern Africa of visiting countries in the region after assuming office. Read more on this story here WATCH: 'I wanted to retire but President Mnangagwa wouldn't let me go,' says aide Zimbabwe's presidential spokesperson George Charamba says he wanted to retire when his former boss Robert Mugabe resigned, but President Emmerson Mnangagwa asked him to continue "serving the nation". Speaking during an interview with ZiFM, Charamba said he had wanted to retire so he could help Mugabe write his memoirs. Mugabe, who ruled Zimbabwe for 37 years, stepped down from power following a military intervention that targeted "criminals around him" in November. For more on this story click here VP Chiwenga: Mugabe 'failed to take Zim to the land of milk and honey' Zimbabwe's vice president, Constantino Chiwenga, has reportedly taken a swipe at former president Robert Mugabe, describing him as the biblical Moses who led the Israelites out of Egypt but failed to lead them to the "land of milk and honey". According to NewsDay, Chiwenga said this while speaking during a mini rally at President Emmerson Mnangagwa's Pricabe Farm in Sherwood Block, Kwekwe. Chiwenga compared Mnangagwa to Joshua - another biblical figure who continued in Moses' place, to lead the Israelites to the Promised Land, the report said. For more on this story click here Algeria crash: Bodies of 257 victims being identified, no word on probe Bodies of the 257 people killed in Algeria's worst aviation disaster were being identified at a military hospital Thursday and returned to families for burial, while officials provided no new information about the crash. Army Chief of Staff General Ahmed Gaid Salah gave instructions to speed up the identification process at the Ain Naadja military hospital in Algiers, the Algerian Defense Ministry said. Many of the victims were badly burned in Wednesday's crash of a military transport plane after it took off and plunged into a field, a Defense Ministry statement said. For more on this story click here Clashes as Swaziland marks 50 years of independence Police fired rubber bullets at protesters in Swaziland on Friday while they marched against worsening living conditions and the cost of celebrations to mark the 50th anniversary of the absolute monarchy. More than 2 000 people took to the streets to take part in a rare demonstration organised by Trade Union Congress of Swaziland (TUCOSWA) in the administrative capital Mbabane. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  