Derrick Spies, Correspondent The plane at Waterkloof air force base. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The multi-million-rand aircraft at the centre of a legal dispute between Gupta owned businesses, an Ireland based aircraft company and the Canadian government, has apparently been returned to Lanseria airport. The Guptas had a lease agreement with Export Development Canada (EDC) and Stoneriver for the Bombadier Global 6000 aircraft but are currently engaged in a legal dispute in UK courts over the agreement. Last month the High Court issued an interim order that the aircraft, with a listing price of $60.5 million, (R731 million), be held at Lanseria pending the outcome of the UK court proceedings. High Court Judge Fayeeza Kathree-Setiloane ordered the plane to be delivered to Lanseria airport along with all appliances, components and necessary equipment within 15 days. READ: Guptas ordered to return controversial aircraft within 15 days Part of the reasons given by Kathree-Setiloane, was that the transponder of the aircraft had been turned off, resulting in the owners having no way to determine where the aircraft was. Earlier this week the Guptas filed for leave to appeal the high court ruling. READ: Court was wrong to ground our plane - Guptas On Friday night several people tweeted that the aircraft’s transponder had been turned back on, and the aircraft was picked up travelling from Dubai back to South Africa. ZS-OAK, the Gupta’s private jet, is at present in SA airspace and headed toward Gauteng. It’s unclear whether it’s returning to fulfil the terms of the court order to ground the aircraft. pic.twitter.com/qRUFkyK1Vo @rcmpgrcpolice yep it's ZS-OAK #GuptaJet pic.twitter.com/2Fkpfdk4zO The aircraft was seen landing at the Lanseria airport, which is where Judge Kathree-Setiloane had ordered it to be held. ??LOST AND FOUND ??[PIC] The #Guptas private jet ZS-OAK has landed at Lanseria Airport. It touched down just after 10pm.Only 2 pilots arrived with the plane No Gupta passengers (Pic credit: @Sthezu) pic.twitter.com/IpJ5ayyRDL  Eyewitness News reporter, Mandy Wiener, reported that the aircraft appeared to be empty, with only two pilots seen disembarking from the craft. #Guptas Two pilots came off the plane. No other passengers have disembarked. Police officers in uniform went in and came out again. pic.twitter.com/SuHc5v73rW Wiener also reported police had also boarded the aircraft and were seen carrying bags. Sorry guys. @Sthezu is watching this plane like a hawk and there's no #Guptas to be seen at Lanseria. Several cops in and out carrying what look like bags. pic.twitter.com/0nDCpr7QQv The plane, which has its own parody account on Twitter, also confirmed it’s return, and appeared to be disappointed that it had not received a bigger welcome party on its arrival. Hey Ho back home again, what no welcome party? https://t.co/JBRuyKf2ha     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  