Mugabe 'in same league as DRC's Mobutu, CAR's Bokassa' - report A Zimbabwean minister has reportedly likened former president Robert Mugabe to some of Africa's most brutal dictators who wanted to"anoint their wives and mistresses as [their] successors". According to NewsDay, the Minister of Agriculture Perrance Shiri said Mugabe was in the same league as Mobutu Sese Seko (Zaire now DRC) and Jean Bédel Bokassa of the Central African Republic (CAR) whose attempts to groom their wives for the presidency failed. He said this while addressing farmers at Chakari over the weekend. For more on this story click here Prophet kills congregant during baptism, says she 'appeared like a vampire' – report A Zimbabwean prophet, 37, has appeared in court after he allegedly killed one of his congregates during a baptism session in Nyaure River in Domboshawa. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the incident happened last weekend when Pastor Masimba Chirayi mistook Wendy Thinnamay Masuka for a "vampire". Chirayi told the Harare magistrate's court that he did not kill the deceased on purpose. He said that  Masuka appeared like a dangerous creature. For more on this story click here Zimbabwe: Nurses' strike takes toll on public health service Defiant nurses in Zimbabwe have vowed to continue a nationwide strike, despite the government saying that they have all been sacked. The striking staff continued for a fifth day on Thursday, their labour action demanding better pay and improved working conditions. The walkout is seen as the biggest mass action facing Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa since he took power after an army-led operation overthrew veteran ruler President Robert Mugabe in November 2017. Read more on this story here Nigeria police recover stolen Senate mace under flyover Nigerian police said on Thursday they had recovered the ceremonial mace - the parliamentary symbol of authority - under a flyover after it was stolen from the Senate. The mace was snatched on Wednesday by "hoodlums" suspected to have been hired by an embattled senator who had been suspended from the upper house because of a dispute over the date of the presidential election next year. For more on this story click here King renames Swaziland to 'eSwatini' The king of Swaziland, one of the world's few absolute monarchs, announced on Thursday that his country had changed its name to eSwatini to mark 50 years since independence from British rule. Meaning "place of the Swazi", eSwatini is the Swazi language name for the tiny nation landlocked between South Africa and Mozambique. Unlike some countries, Swaziland did not change its name when it gained independence in 1968 after being a British protectorate for more than 60 years. For more on this story click here Student from Zambia fights to compete in US poetry contest Lawyers for a high school student who fled his native Zambia and is suing to compete in a government-funded national poetry competition say the case is about an "educational benefit" for any public school student. Allan Monga of Deering High School won the Maine "Poetry Out Loud" contest. He applied for asylum in the US, but hasn't been granted legal residency. He's not being allowed to compete in the National Endowment of the Arts' "Poetry Out Loud" contest next week. The Portland Press Herald reports his lawyer said Wednesday that Monga may not get another chance to compete in the national finals and "show his merit." Read more on this story here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  