While the nationwide Saftu strike is still ongoing, other seemingly unrelated incidents of protest action - including those in the North West - are flaring up in different parts of the country.   Jump to
                    bottom Grabouw - traffic update  Klerksdorp  WATCH - Klerksdorp: Alcohol looted in Mahumapelo protests Looting reported in Sannieshof, North West Province.  Klerksdorp  Grabouw, Western Cape  More looting reported in the North West towns of Jouberton and Alabama near Klerksdorp.  #NorthWest police say more shops have been looted in the townships of Jouberton and Alabama near #Klerksdorp on Wednesday afternoon. #NorthWestProtests @TeamNews24 Grabouw, Western Cape  Cape Town - N2 Route:  Sir Lowry's Pass:  ROAD CLOSED due to #ProtestAction on the Grabouw side pic.twitter.com/NavI311Hoz North West Province  The North West Province is in flames.Hooliganism coupled with bad leadership, on top of poverty and despair was enough to set it alight.I don't even know what the latest protest action is about. Whether it's about #SupraMahumapelo or the #SAFTUstrike or service delivery pic.twitter.com/xTVmAuuhff North West protests: Shops looted near Klerksdorp, Potchefstroom North West police say protesters have looted several shops near Klerksdorp and Potchefstroom. Brigadier Sabata Mokgwabone said "sporadic incidents" of looting had been experienced in Khuma, near Klerksdorp, and Ikageng near Potchefstroom on Tuesday evening. Mokgwabone said a truck carrying fruit and vegetables was also looted in Dryharts. "We still have our deployments to monitor and stabilise the situation. We are still urging members of the community to refrain from committing crime under the pretext of protest, as that will not be tolerated."  We call on all those participating in the marches across the various  provinces to refrain from violence, destruction of property and intimidation. The rights of people who do not want to participate in the marches must be respected. #PeacefulProtest #SAFTUstrike Traffic and routes around Grabouw, Western Cape remain congested.  N2 at Grabouw REMAINS CLOSED for traffic in both directions due to protest action. Traffic is being redirected via R44 Kleinmond.TRAFFIC COUNT on R44 Kleinmond @ 11:00:Direction Gordon's Bay 416 /hourDirection Hermanus 836 /hour.BUMPER TO BUMPER traffic through Kleinmond. Sporadic protests flare up in Gauteng, Western Cape As the country braces for the national shutdown by the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu), there are sporadic unrelated protests flaring up across Gauteng. Sporadic protests are also being staged in parts of the Western Cape, where six people have been arrested. Some of the incidents have been linked to housing and service delivery issues. The Johannesburg Metro Police Department has warned motorists that there will be road closures in the CBD between 10:00 and 14:00 on Wednesday, but roads have also been affected in other parts of Johannesburg following unrelated protests. Gauteng police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said local residents were demanding municipal services and protesting against the councilor of Ward 81 in Alexandra, north of Johannesburg. Peters said the protest was unrelated to the Saftu strike and that roads, including London Road near the N3, were closed. She said motorists were urged to find alternative routes.  Traffic is still affected around Grabouw, in the Western Cape.  Cape Town - #ProtestAction   N2 Route: ROAD CLOSED from Sir Lowrys Pass to Grabouw - traffic using the R44 diversion can expect delays due to stop/go roadwork controls Grabouw, Western Cape  #TWKMun: Due to the protest action situation in #Grabouw the Municipal and Traffic Offices and Libraries will be closed today. Apology for the inconvenience. Grabouw, Western Cape  #TWKMun: After consideration of the protest action situation in #Grabouw the Ward 14 IDP & Budget meeting of tonight is cancelled. Apology for the inconvenience. Alexandra township, Johannesburg  @TrafficSA @EWNTraffic . Alex, London Rd near Alex Mall roads leading to N3 blocked pic.twitter.com/TsWWUYgyMB Pelican Park, Cape Town Police monitoring Pelican Park, Phumlani side. Crowd still gathering. #SAFTUstrike pic.twitter.com/BoyYuWAnVx Reported protests in Pelican Park, Cape Town. This just happened to someone just across from my Cresent in Pelican Park #SAFTUstrike pic.twitter.com/IHn0TDoP0K Taung, North West  #NorthWest About six police vans have arrived in #Taung to try and stop community protest in the home town and village of ANC Youth League President #CollenMaine. Protests and lootings have been reported in many townships and towns in the province since they started in #Mahikeng. pic.twitter.com/A61houQ62c Midrand  @News24 @eNCA @SABCNewsOnline not sure if this #SAFTUstrike related. N1 by New Road, Midrand. Two Bakkies with protesters on back driving slow. pic.twitter.com/rfbeKY1TUE Peaceful protest in Phumlani Village near Lotus River in Cape Town (Supplied: City of Cape Town)  WATCH: Delareyville residents pick up the pieces after violent protest Update: #RoadClosure due to Protesting, N2 Outbound closed at Sir Lowry's Pass Rd and Inbound closed at Grabouw, use alt route. #BeTheChange pic.twitter.com/quk19WCnpX Protests in Grabouw.  Violent protests in Grabouw. N2 closed in both directions between Sir Lowry’s Pass Rd and Orchard St. Use alternative route. Reports of protest action in Grabouw, in the Western Cape, affecting all traffic in the area.  N2 at Grabouw closed. All traffic from Villiersdorp / Calendon to CPT diverted via Hermanus. 'Why don't they just remove Supra?' - North West residents Residents in the North West remained adamant that the only way calm would be restored to the embattled province, was if Premier Supra Mahumapelo was fired. "Why don't they just remove Supra? He is corrupt, and everything will be fine if he goes. The problem will be solved," a resident in Delareyville, North West told News24. Violence broke out in the province and protesters called for Mahumapelo to go, after a vote of no confidence in him was postponed. This was due to an Economic Freedom Fighters court application to have the vote held by secret ballot "to protect" African National Congress members who wanted to oust him. Glen van Wyk stood next to the closed Delareyville Diesel BPK shop. He was accompanied by a few other workers.  ICYMI: WATCH: School set alight in North West protest ICYMI: Angry Sobantu residents vow to intensify protest over houses "Where are the thousand housing units we were promised?" This was the question asked by Sobantu residents on Monday as they took Msunduzi Municipality to task over a housing project that was supposed to have started 10 years ago. The now scrapped project would have seen 1 000 families from the crowded township being accommodated. Angry residents blockaded the roads with burning tyres on Monday demanding to know what had happened to funds earmarked for the units that were to have been built on Hollingwood site.  ICYMI: Teen killed in North West protests Violent protests in Taung, North West, have claimed the life of a teenage boy, police said on Tuesday. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Sabata Mokgwabone said the 16-year-old had died during protest action on Monday. Protests have gripped parts of the North West for the past two days. A murder case has since been opened. Mokgwabone said protesters had looted several shops, set buildings alight and attacked police officials on Monday. He said a building was also set alight in Stella on Tuesday morning. One person had been arrested for public violence. Mokgwabone said 11 people had been arrested in Christiana for possession of suspected stolen goods.  ICYMI: Violence spreads in North West as residents demand that Supra Mahumapelo goes Violent protests, calling for embattled North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo to go, have spread to at least three other towns in the province. Police have confirmed that rioting has led to the total shutdown of the small town of Delareyville, while in Taung, protesters have barricaded the roads with rocks and burning tyres. There were also protests in Vryburg on Sunday. This follows violent protests in Mahikeng on Wednesday after a vote of no confidence in Mahumapelo was postponed. This was due to the Economic Freedom Fighters going to court to demand that the vote be held via secret ballot "to protect" ANC members who wanted to oust him. North West police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Sabata Mokgwabone said several shops in Taung had been looted. Police officers had also been sent to Delareyville to assess the situation, he added.  Jump to
                top