President Cyril Ramaphosa delivers his speech at the funeral of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Picture: GCIS Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories In case you missed it, here are the highlights from City Press on Sunday, April 15.  Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's funeral rift The ANC had to fight for space on the programme of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's funeral, which became a platform to shame the party for turning its back on her. City Press understands that the Madikizela-Mandela family was opposed to ANC speakers and made an eleventh-hour compromise to give space to the governing party, the political home of the late stalwart and MP. ANC insiders described a "clear rift" between the party and the Madikizela-Mandela family. - Read the story here.  Gigaba fights for his political life Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba is going back to the courts to fight the Oppenheimers in a legal matter that threatens his Cabinet position. Gigaba has so far come short in court battles with Fireblade Aviation, owned by the wealthy Oppenheimer family. The courts have agreed with Fireblade that Gigaba granted it approval for a private terminal at OR Tambo International Airport. The terminal was allegedly granted by Gigaba in early 2016 during his first stint as minister of home affairs but he has denied giving such permission. Now Gigaba is applying to the Constitutional Court to argue that such a deal would in any case be illegal and unconstitutional. - Read the full story.  How law firm milked pension fund of R200m A Pretoria law firm is being investigated after accusations that it plundered more than R200m in pension money belonging to municipal councillors. Details of the alleged heist are laid bare in an affidavit in which the Municipal Councillors’ Pension Fund complains to the Law Society of the Northern Provinces about the conduct of Maluleke Seriti Makume Matlala (MSMM) Incorporated. - Read more here.  Survé tried to score PIC billions The PIC has refused to confirm or deny that it was the mystery investor that planned to give Sagarmatha Technologies, the new venture by media mogul Iqbal Survé, the minimum of R3 billion it wanted before listing on the JSE this week. Documents in City Press’ possession, however, indicate that the PIC was investing something in Sagarmatha. - Read the full story.  Caster in the spotlight, again The difference between a Caster Semenya whose testosterone
levels are suppressed with medication and a Caster Semenya who runs with what
mother nature gave her is between six and seven seconds over in an 800m race. It follows that if the International Association of
Athletics Federations (IAAF) succeeds in November in again instituting a
restriction on the testosterone levels of female athletes, it would cast a dark
cloud over the South African star’s career, said sports psychologist Ross
Tucker. Last month, the IAAF’s council decided to again institute a
limit on the testosterone levels of women who run in certain events. The limit
applied between 2011 and 2015. Tucker said the new policy could well be specifically
targeting Semenya. - Read the story here.  Opinion: We must stop the spy claims We all know there was heavy infiltration and that some of the most credible people in our midst were on the security branch’s payroll. A way to end this would be a full-scale inquiry in the form of a Truth and Reconciliation Commission, to reveal and prove once and for all who was on the branch’s payroll. But I somehow doubt there would be much enthusiasm in the governing party for this, as it would kill off whatever little is left of its unity. Whatever we do, we need to bring to an end to this very dangerous weapon that is used for nefarious and opportunistic ends, writes Mondli Makhanya. - Read the full column.  Zonke Dikana: Growing in love When R&B and Afro-soul singer Zonke Dikana enters the room, everything stops. Her latest work is called L. O. V. E – which stands for Living Out Various Emotions. "The album takes you on a journey; whether you are happy or annoyed in your relationships, you’ll find a song on this album. There are different emotions love takes you on," she says. - See the full interview.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  