Kim Kardashian. (Photo: Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Severe thunderstorms are expected to take hold of parts of the Western Cape, Warren Whiteley is touted for the Bok captaincy and News24 is looking to honour 100 young South Africans who embody the characteristics Mandela was best known for. Scroll through some of our leading stories: 'We are no longer willing to suffer' – Numsa during national shutdown The government is betraying workers by agreeing to a R20 per hour national minimum wage, says the spokesperson for Numsa, which was the biggest union to take part in the general strike planned by the South African Federation of Trade Unions. Violent protest spreads in North West: Shops looted, 1 patient deadViolence continues to spread across the embattled North West as more and more shops are looted and a hospital is invaded. Severe weather warning for Western Cape, with heavy thunderstorms, hail expected The City of Cape Town is on standby as it prepares for severe thunderstorms from Wednesday evening into Thursday morning. 'I fear no one but my God' – De Lille ahead of internal DA motion against her Embattled Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille says she isn't concerned about the pending internal motion of no confidence against her on Wednesday as "she fears no one." Christo Wiese is selling two luxury private jets Christo Wiese, the embattled former chairperson of scandal-hit Steinhoff, is disposing of a Falcon and Boeing. LOOK INSIDE: Steinhoff ex-chair Christo Wiese sells two luxury jets. At a guesstimate, yours for just tens of millions of dollars! https://t.co/87bv9ai2O3 pic.twitter.com/e0jFIcM5Tm   'I put petrol on her and walked away' - court hears in Karabo Mokoena murder trialA police officer has told the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg that the man accused of the murder of Karabo Mokoena, appeared calm, relaxed and co-operative when he pointed out the scene where Mokoena's body was set alight. Rassie: Whiteley a 'strong contender' for Bok captaincy Springbok coach Rassie Erasmus says that Warren Whiteley is a strong contender for the national captaincy if he can prove his fitness. New @Springboks coach Rassie Erasmus chats to media at Cape Town International. Opens up on captaincy, transformation and much more. We'll be bringing you those stories throughout the day ... pic.twitter.com/M08gyJ84FV  PICS: Kim Kardashian’s latest fragrance inspo is her naked body Kim Kardashian is nude on social media again – this time for her latest fragrance venture. AfriForum vs EFF: Who has most to gain? It will not end well for AfriForum and by extension, those who they claim to represent, because the only winners will be Julius Malema and the EFF, writes Melanie Verwoerd. News24 is looking for 100 young Nelson Mandelas of the future, nominations open! In celebration of what would have been former president Nelson Mandela's 100th birthday on July 18, News24 is looking to honour 100 young South Africans who embody the characteristics Mandela was best known for. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  