Siphelele Nketo PHOTO: Siphelele NketoEFF members march outside the Taylor Bequest Hospital in Matatiele. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ECONOMIC Freedom Fighters (EFF) members called for the Taylor Bequest Hospital in Matatiele to improve services and for government to develop the hospital saying the state of healthcare in the Alfred Nzo region is in crisis. The party handed over a list of grievances to the hospital’s management after a march that was held under the supervision of SAPS in Matatiele on Tuesday. They demanded that government rebuild the hospital and provide quality houses for doctors. Other demands included more doctors and nurses to be employed and that local clinics must render services 24 hours a day, including weekends. During the march,people said patients were sleeping on benches and on the hospital floor because there are not enough beds to accommodate them. Alfred Nzo Regional EFF co-ordinator Tumo Mothapa said the hospital is failing to provide heaters for patients to keep warm while waiting to be attended to. Mothapa said that toilets in the waiting room area sometimes leaked and this puts patients at risk of contracting diseases. “The EFF is focusing on public healthcare services this year and we want to make sure that clinics and hospitals have proper facilities, skilled staff and that people are treated with dignity. “We resolved to expose all public health institutions that are in bad conditions and name and shame doctors and nurses who are involved in wrong doings,” said Mothapa. Mothapa said that the hospital has dilapidated buildings, broken machines and a shortage of healthcare practitioners. The EFF also demanded that all unemployed community healthcare workers be employed to assist in the distribution of medication to rural areas of Matatiele. The memorandum was accepted by the hospital’s Chief Executive Officer. Responding to EFF members, the CEO said that the memorandum will be sent to the Department of Health. Eastern Cape Department of Health spokesperson, Sizwe Kupelo said the department will look at the issues raised by the party and respond. Kupelo said that in the next three years, government will renovate some of the hospitals in the province including Taylor Bequest. The EFF threatened to have sit-ins at the hospital if the department fails to respond to their demands. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  