Jenna Etheridge Former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer. (Caryn Dolley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Sentencing proceedings in the corruption, racketeering and money laundering trial of former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer and four others will continue next month, with further closing arguments. Western Cape High Court Judge Rosheni Allie said they would convene again on May 2. Lamoer, tow-truck company owner Saleem Dawjee and brigadiers Collin Govender and Darius van der Ross faced 109 charges of corruption, racketeering and money laundering. Dawjee allegedly paid them for favours by covering some of their fuel, clothing and travel costs. In February, Dawjee was found guilty of fraud and corruption, while his co-accused were convicted of corruption. Dawjee and his co-accused pleaded guilty to charges of corruption in exchange for a non-custodial sentence, according to an agreement with the National Prosecuting Authority. READ: Businessman convicted of corruption is a 'law-abiding citizen who simply fell off a cliff' - lawyer The court previously heard that Dawjee was remorseful over his actions and added that the fact that he had pleaded guilty to 11 charges was indicative of his remorse. Lamoer pleaded guilty to a single charge of corruption, in terms of the section of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, which relate to public officers agreeing to accept or offering to accept a gratification.Lamoer admitted that, while he was in public office, he made loans from Dawjee and close corporations Towbars Cape and Towbars King, during the period December 2011 to September 2013, with the understanding that they would have to be paid back on request or after his retirement."I honoured the agreement after my retirement."Sharon Govender was acquitted. State prosecutor Billy Downer reminded the court on Thursday that the accused had failed in their duties as senior officials. "All have agreed they have fallen short because they foresaw at [the] time that they accepted gratifications that what they were doing is wrong and it might lead to preferential treatment." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  