Prosecutor Charmaine Labuschagne and WO Jerry Motaung.Photo: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Isaac Pita (26) from Bronville in Welkom was sentenced to two terms of life imprisonment plus 73 years imprisonment following his conviction of raping minor girls. He lived a life of crime and was sentenced without possible parole. Pita, found to have preyed on young girls, was sentenced by Magistrate Deon van Rooyen in the Welkom Magistrate’s Court on 12 March. His sentencing has ended his 11-year reign of rape and the sexual abuse of young girls. Sgt Mamello Mokhuoane, Welkom police spokesperson, said DNA evidence and intensive investigation positively linked Pita to the rape and sexual abuse cases. WO Jerry Motaung conducted investigations, while Charmaine Labuschagne was the prosecutor. The court found Pita guilty on charges of rape and the sexual abuse of girls aged between eight and 11 years. For raping two victims, who were aged eight and 11 years at the time, he received two life sentences. Pita further received 73 years for other cases combined. These include rape, indecent assault, compelling or causing children to witness sexual offences, sexual acts or self-masturbation and the exposure or display of, or causing exposure or display of, genital organs. In passing sentence, Van Rooyen labelled Pita as a serial rapist and said that these kinds of appal­ling acts enrage communities. “We live in a sick society where parents cannot safely send their children to the shops, or even allow them to play in the streets with their friends,” said Van Rooyen Mokhuoane said according to findings, Pita began his spate of raping and sexually abusing minor girls in his teenage years. She said the accused’s modus operandi was to lure his victims with cash and threatening others with a knife before raping them. Mokhuoane said the first rape case against Pita was reported on 8 August 2006. Pita was 16 years old at the time of this first rape. She said this case was for raping a nine-year-old girl, who was a learner at the Bronville Primary School. “The accused confronted the victim who was on her way home after school, threatened her with a knife and forcefully dragged her into one of the classrooms where he raped her,” said Mokhuoane. The incident set the tone for Pita to continue his raping spree and to target minor girls in the community of Bronville. During a separate incident, which occurred on 27 March 2016, Pita reportedly raped two girls, an eight-year-old and an 11-year-old, at a seclu­ded place. Mokhuoane said with his last victims, raped early in 2017, Pita lured them by promising to pay each R25 to helped him fetch plastic on the outskirts of a residential settlement of Bronville. “He took them to a makeshift tent in the veld where he frightened them by saying that the tent was filled with dead people and threatened to kill them if they scream or cry,” she said. Mokhuoane said the breakthrough into a string of rape cases followed Pita’s arrest by investigative officer Motaung after the raping of the two girls. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  