Jana van der Merwe PHOTO: Facebook Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories She has spent the past year and a half in custody in a Mauritius prison, but today Marietjie Vosloo walked free. The 34-year-old mom from Springs in Gauteng, who was charged with assault after the death of her stepdaughter Mundolene (17) in October 2016, was released after appearing in a Port Louis court on Monday. Marietjie was given a 15-month sentence, but she has already served 17 months behind bars, her lawyer Zaredhin Jaunbacchus told YOU. "I'm happy for her and the end of the case," Jaunbacchus said. "She has already been released." Marietjie initially faced the "more serious charge" of assault without intent to kill, but this charge was dropped by the court last Wednesday. Mundolene died after a fight with Marietjie while on a family holiday to the island on 6 October. It was the first day of their stay at the luxury Hotel Riu with Marietjie's husband and Mundolene's father, Mike (47) and Mundolene’s two younger brothers. On their way back to the hotel room, Marietjie struck Mundolene. The teenager collapsed and died shortly afterwards at the hotel. In a video interview with Defimedia filmed outside the courthouse last week, an emotional Marietjie said she had never meant to harm Mundolene. "What happened was a mistake," Marietjie says in the clip. "In a moment that you’re hurt and angry, you do stuff that you don’t mean to do. It was never my intention to hit her [Mundolene], but in a moment of anger it just happened, without thinking. I’ve asked them [the family] for forgiveness for what I did. "I also have an 11-year-old son at home," she continues. "His dad isn’t working in South Africa. We’re paying an au pair to look after him. There’s no family to look after him. "I really want to go home to be with my son. I love my family a lot and I keep [in contact] with them a lot. As soon as I go back to prison I’ll phone them and I’ll talk to them." Marietjie's family could not immediately be reached for comment on when she would return to the country. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  