Iavan Pijoos and Christina Pitt The bus that was set alight, resulting in 6 deaths. (Supplied, SAPS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Chamber of Mines has expressed its shock and sadness following the violent deaths of six Modikwa Platinum Mine miners outside Driekop in Limpopo on Monday evening. Six mineworkers died and 28 others were injured after the bus they were travelling in was set alight. READ: Six mine workers die after their bus is set alight "These events are particularly shocking given the gruesome and merciless nature of this attack on innocent people who were making their way to work to provide for their families," said Chamber of Mines spokesperson Memory Johnstone. "The level of brutality of this attack is inconceivable and the impact of this act of violence will be felt for many years to come, not only by those who survived the incident, but also by those left behind." Limpopo police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said that two people who pretended to be mineworkers got onto the bus and set it alight. The perpetrators then fled from the bus. Mojapelo said six workers were burnt beyond recognition. The bus driver and the 28 other workers escaped through windows. Condemnation and condolences National Union of Mineworkers north east regional secretary Phillip Mankge said 39 workers were travelling in the bus. Mankge has called on police to bring the perpetrators of the "evil and atrocious act" to book. Meanwhile, the ANC in Limpopo condemned the incident. "The ANC in Limpopo feels that there can never be any reasonable justification for this kind of criminality." The Portfolio Committee on Mineral Resources has extended its heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of those who died. "The people who set the bus alight are heartless criminals who should be arrested immediately and face the full might of the law. The law enforcement agencies should not rest until such evil elements are removed from society completely," said Sahlulele Luzipo, chairperson of the committee. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  