Jonathan Ntutu and Hilton Langenhoven (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Patricia de Lille is 'within her rights' to pay tribute to Mama Winnie says EFF’s Shivambu, Ace Magushule says a ‘disservice’ has been done to Winne and Visually impaired SA athletes blitz to gold, silver. Here are today's top stories: We have done a disservice to Mama - Magashule after Winnie doccie ANC secretary general Ace Magashule says the ANC has done a disservice to Winnie Madikizela-Mandela by not recognising her role in the liberation movement sooner. State capture inquiry: Zondo dismisses EFF's objection to Terence Nombembe appointment Chairperson of the commission of inquiry into state capture, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, has dismissed the Economic Freedom Fighters' objection to the appointment of Terence Nombembe as head of investigations. Collen must stop being a coward and hiding behind Supra – ANC NW on league leader's Gupta confession The ANC in the North West has questioned the reasons behind a confession by ANC Youth League president Collen Maine that it was the province's ANC chairperson Supra Mahumapelo who introduced him to the controversial Gupta family. Visually impaired SA athletes blitz to gold, silver Jonathan Ntutu blitzed South Africa to gold in the men's T12 100m on Thursday at the 2018 Commonwealth Games on the Gold Coast. Patricia de Lille 'within her rights' to pay tribute to Mama Winnie - Shivambu Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) deputy president Floyd Shivambu has come to the defence of Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille, who had appeared at the EFF's memorial service for Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Mugabe's daughter Bona at airport to welcome new plane with dad's initials Robert Mugabe's daughter Bona was at Harare’s international airport on Wednesday to see the arrival of a newly-acquired passenger plane bearing her father’s initials.  DStv 2018 price hike: Here's how much you will pay MultiChoice has increased DStv subscription fees again from 1 April with subscribers of the fastest-growing tiers, DStv Compact and DStv Compact Plus now seeing the steepest increase. Union heading to court to apply for SAA business rescue Trade union Solidarity announced on Thursday that it intends to apply to the High Court to have embattled state-owned airline South African Airways placed in business rescue. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  