$15bn diamond scandal: Senior govt officials, including Zim VP 'to appear before parliament' Several senior government officials have reportedly been summoned by Zimbabwe's parliamentary portfolio committee on mines and energy over the missing $15 billion diamond revenue. According to reports, ex-president Robert Mugabe, announced in 2015 that $15bn of diamonds were spirited out of Marange, the dusty fields more than four hours' drive from the capital Harare which were the site of a bloody military clampdown in 2008. The privately owned NewsDay newspaperreported that the mines and energy portfolio committee which was chaired by independent lawmaker, Temba Mliswa, had summoned Vice President Kembo Mohadi – a state security minister at the time - finance minister Patrick Chinamasa and former police boss Augustine Chihuri to give evidence before it. For more on this story click here Mnangagwa a 'Mugabe look-alike'? Zim presidential spokesperson takes on cynics A top government official in Zimbabwe has defended President Emmerson Mnangagwa against claims he is "a Mugabe look-alike", saying that the new president is driving changes aimed at redefining the country and luring investors. Presidential spokesperson George Charamba hinted that Mnangagwa may bring changes to the way Zimbabwe's government is run, especially in its dealings with investors. "We need a new institutional framework, arguably akin to what we saw and met in Rwanda. There, one supremely executive and overriding institution deals with investors, deals with them from start to finish, all in 24 hours," Charamba said in an editorial in the state-run Sunday Mail. For more on this story click here 'I don't want to be involved in politics,' Zim's exiled musician says as he returns home Zimbabwe's most famous musician, Thomas Mapfumo, who fled the country at the height of political repression, has reportedly said that he won't be getting involved in politics, as he prepares to return home after more than 10 years. Mapfumo has not set his foot in the southern African country since 2004, when he settled in the United States. Jailed by the country's former white rulers over his protest music, he later was hounded by the black government that succeeded them. "I don't want to be involved in politics I am just here for the people. I am here for everyone. I just belong to the poor people, that’s where I come from," BBC quoted Mapfumo as saying. Read more on this story here PICS: 2 university brides 'leave their wedding receptions to write final exams' Two Nigerian university brides reportedly left their wedding receptions last weekend to sit their final year examination in Mass Communication. According to CNN, the two final year students "hastily said their "I dos" to their grooms before heading to an exam hall because of a date clash". Apparently Dorcas Atsea and Deborah Atoh had fixed their wedding dates when the exam, originally scheduled for February, was postponed due to inadequate facilities at the Benue State University in Nigeria's Middle Belt region, the report said. For more on this story click here Angolan ex-strongman's son planned to steal $1.5 bln: govt Luanda - The son of Angola's former president Jose Eduardo dos Santos planned to siphon off $1.5 billion when he ran the oil-rich country's sovereign wealth fund, the finance ministry said on Monday. The figure is three times higher than an initial sum illegally transferred to a London bank. Jose Filomeno dos Santos is accused of "fraud, misappropriation of funds, money laundering and associating with criminals." Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  