Zama Chutshela PHOTO: Sbu Ndlovu Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The half-built face-brick double-storey house sticks out
like a sore thumb between the modest homes on the quiet street in Adams
Mission, south of Durban. The roofless, windowless structure is a sorry sight for
neighbours – but for Sam Meyiwa, the unfinished building is a painful reminder
of unfulfilled dreams and a life tragically cut short. This is the house his son had hoped Sam, his wife,
Ntombifuthi, and the rest of the Meyiwa clan would love, laugh and make new
memories in. But Senzo Meyiwa’s dream was dashed when the Orlando Pirates
goalkeeper was shot and killed during an armed robbery at his girlfriend Kelly
Khumalo’s mother’s house in Vosloorus more than three years ago. Now, his heartbroken father is stressed about their
abandoned dream home. Before his death, Senzo (30) reportedly spent close to R1
million on the house, but his family is too poor to complete the construction,
which they say will cost an estimated R900 000. Recent media reports
suggest the community wants the building demolished because teenagers are
having sex in the house and thugs are using it as a hideout. Sam, however, is quick to dismiss the reports when we meet
him at his house in Umlazi. “I know the house needs to be cleaned but it’s not
true criminals use it as their hiding spot,” he tells DRUM. “There’s no such thing as residents wanting the house
demolished. I don’t know where these rumours are coming from. If it was true I
would be the first one to know.” According to Sam, Senzo had planned to build
them a dream house, complete with a swimming pool, open-plan kitchen and enough
bedrooms to accommodate the 10 relatives who live with Sam and Ntombifuthi in
their four-room Umlazi home. When we visit the site, there’s no sign of life inside the
house and the roofless structure is covered in bushes and overgrown grass. It’s
a sight that causes Sam pain. “This was meant to be our home,” he says. Sam
tells us he’s arranged to meet local traditional healers to discuss the house
because there’s been no progress for “at least two years”. After Senzo’s
murder, Sam says many people offered to help them complete the house. “Among
those people is businessman Vivian Reddy,” Sam says. “He offered to help us finish building the house but nothing
has materialised. We tried contacting his office, but haven’t been lucky.” Sam
shakes his head solemnly before continuing, “That house has become a hole in my
heart. I can’t even sleep at night thinking about it.” As one of the country’s top goalkeepers, Senzo, who grew up
with his three siblings in Umlazi, wanted to set his family up elsewhere. “He
knew I was no longer comfortable living in the township because of the noise,” Sam
says. “I guess that’s one of the reasons he built that house.” Senzo
loved the area, Sam adds. “He knew we were getting old and he wanted us to age gracefully
at Adams Mission. We live in a four-room house that’s too small for all of us
and Senzo wanted a place to accommodate everyone.” He’d planned to surprise his
parents with the house, Sam says. “He started building it sometime in 2013 but
he only told me in 2014, a few months before his death. We weren’t supposed to
know until the house was finished but he was too excited, so he told me.” Tears
well in Sam’s eyes as he recalls the day Senzo unveiled his grand plan. “When we arrived at the site, Senzo held my hand firmly and
showed me this facebrick structure. He showed me around, pointing to where the
swimming pool and the rest of the rooms would be. “In that moment I felt very
proud of my son . . . But now all those dreams have been shattered.” Hanging
his head in despair, Sam says, “He will never see the final product of his
work.” If they don’t get any help, the Meyiwa family will also not see Senzo’s
dream come true.  “We don’t have money to finish the house,” Sam says.
“Sometimes I’m tempted to sell the whole structure and move on with my life. “But
I know I can’t do that because I’d be defying my son’s wishes.” Senzo’s brother, Sifiso Meyiwa (36), regrets not being able
to complete the task his younger brother started. “We haven’t been able to continue
because no one is working except me,” says Sifiso, who works as an
administration clerk at the South African Police Service. “If I had money I’d
complete the house.” Sifiso says the family aims to honour Senzo, in spite of the
lack of finances and resources, . “Our intention is to continue with all of the
programmes Senzo started or intended to start. That means completing the house
at Adams Mission. “It also means activating the Senzo Meyiwa Foundation, which
seeks to help the needy. The foundation will ensure his legacy lasts forever.” The
foundation isn’t active yet but “we are talking to potential sponsors”, Sifiso
adds. Meanwhile, Vivian says the family is welcome to contact his
office for help. “It’s not true that I promised to help continue building the
house,” Vivian says. “Senzo’s father has been trying to get hold of me but
failed. I’d encourage them to get in touch with the office and make a formal
request, which the board will consider,” the businessman says. But some
residents in Adams Mission say Sam needn’t worry about the house. “As a neighbour and a community member, I have no knowledge
that the house is going to be demolished,” says Mbuzi Makhanya, who lives
nearby. “I’m also close enough to see everything that’s happening in that house,
so I’d know.” However, another neighbour says residents are worried.
“We’re not sure what the plan is because it’s someone else’s property. The
building is clearly abandoned and we’re worried that if it’s left like this it
might become a home for criminals,” says the neighbour, who asked not to be
named. Traditional healer Mbongeni Makhanya says the community has
no reason to be concerned. “It’s not true the building has become a home for
criminals,” Mbongeni insists. “We’re keeping a close eye on that building.” He says Senzo’s father has requested a meeting with him to
discuss the future of the house but “I am still waiting for him to give me the date”.
It’s not known when Sam will meet with the community leaders as the forlorn
father spends a lot of time seeking justice for his son. “I just want justice
for my son and I want to fulfil his dreams,” Sam says. He was criticised for
cornering Fikile Mbalula when he visited the Glebelands hostel in Umlazi on
official business last year, but the devastated dad doesn’t regret asking the
police minister to help find his son’s killers. “I’m not worried about people
who speak behind my back because some of them don’t know the pain of
losing a child,” Sam says of the incident. “I’m not overreacting and I
don’t want the spotlight. If I don’t make a noise, no one will. I shall not
fold my arms and keep quiet. I’ll fight until the end.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  