(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Kenya's high court is reportedly considering whether or not to repeal some of the country's colonial-era laws banning homosexuality – a crime that carries at least 14 years in jail in the east African nation. According to Voice of America, rights groups in the east African nation have expressed concern over the law, saying that it violated the country's constitution and it opened "the way to discrimination and abuse of sexual minorities". Homosexuality remained unaccepted in Kenya, as various religious groups continued to urge the courts not to amend the constitution. Although gay people were rarely jailed in the east African country, living openly as gay was still regarded as dangerous for fear of prosecution under the colonial-era law, and being outed as gay was often used for extortion. 'This is not about Uhuru Kenyatta' President Uhuru Kenyatta told CNN's Christiane Amanpour during an interview recently that  homosexuality was not an issue of human rights, but rather of "our 
own base as a culture". "I won't engage in a subject that is of no importance to the people of 
Kenya. This is not an issue of human rights, this is an issue of our own
 base as a culture, as a people regardless of which community you come 
from," "This is not about Uhuru Kenyatta saying yes or no, this is an issue of 
the people of Kenya themselves who have bestowed upon themselves a 
Constitution after several years of clearly stating that this is not 
acceptable and is not a subject they are willing to engage in at this 
time and moment," Kenyatta said. "It is important to them where they are. It's not important to me as the
 leader of 49 million Kenyans. I represent that which our people desire 
us to believe. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  