Khosi Biyela and Kaizer Ngwenya PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories He was supposed to be the “cool uncle” who took care of her
and made her feel welcome in his home. Instead she lived through a nightmare that continues to
haunt her to this day. Sipho Ndlovu – the kwaito star better known as Brickz –
will forever be the bogeyman for the young woman he raped in his home when she
was 17 years old. Now 22, the young woman isn’t at peace, her father tells
DRUM in his most in-depth interview yet. Brickz was found guilty of raping his niece at his home in
Ruimsig, Mogale City, in November 2013, and was recently sent to jail for 15
years. It’s the end of a chapter that brought pain and suffering to
the woman and her family but the sentence has brought little comfort. Her uncle
was supposed to be someone she trusted, a man she’d known all her life – the
older relative who should’ve protected her. Instead he violated their trust, says the young woman’s
father, who is a widower. “When they told me what he’d done, I couldn’t believe
it. I just listened and my skin crawled. I remember asking, ‘What do you mean
he hurt her?’ “And when they told me he raped her, my body went numb. I don’t remember
any reaction other than feeling numb and cold,” he says. Sitting in a cane chair outside his Johannesburg home, he
reflects on the painful four years the family has been through. “It took one
terrible thing to change our lives,” the 58-year-old father says. The process has been like climbing a steep mountain for the
family, he says. And even though Brickz is now behind bars, the rape survivor
is not at peace. “She’s wounded and feels betrayed. She often asks how her
uncle could do this to her. She also stresses she’ll never regain her
confidence and self-esteem. “But despite all the pain and struggle, she’s relieved
it’s all over,” the father says. The musician was blasted by Randburg
magistrate John Baloyi for showing no remorse during the trial. This meant he
wasn’t suitable for rehabilitation – sentiments the father agrees with
wholeheartedly. They wanted an apology from Brickz, the father says, and so
far he hasn’t shown any intention of giving it to them. “My daughter isn’t in a
happy place. Although he was found guilty, my daughter isn’t free nor at peace
because he hasn’t shown remorse. “But I hope one day his eyes open and he’ll
see the light.” The rape and conviction have torn the once-close family apart.
The victim’s father remembers a young Brickz, a boy he always gave pocket money
to for school. “There were a lot of children – boys and girls and I loved them
all. But I had a soft spot for this particular boy and I always gave him money.
I loved him like my own son. I never thought one day he could cause so much
distress in my life.” It took him a long time to believe Brickz had raped his daughter,
he says, because he believed uncles had a duty to protect their nieces and nephews.
“I grew up thinking an uncle is someone you could trust even more than your own
mother. “They’re the ones who should protect you or who you would run to when
you’re in trouble. But he ruined all that. He disgraced everyone who is an
uncle.” His daughter had gone to stay with the singer and his wife,
Nqobile Gamede, in 2012 while he (the father) was sick in hospital from 2011. “They
said they wanted her to help with household chores and also because she was a
smart child. I was sick and they were family, so I agreed not knowing he was
going to turn my daughter into his wife.”  He didn’t know it would be the worst mistake of his life. The
family is now firmly divided, he says. “They now see me and my two daughters as
their bitter enemies. But his family is to blame for shielding, protecting and
supporting a criminal. They deserted my daughter who was in so much pain. What
they did, in fact, was to throw her into the fires of hell.” He and his daughters just wanted justice, he says, which led
to some family members hating them. “But I tell my kids not to hate their
relatives. Even though they ill-treated them, I don’t want them to hate them. My
daughter didn’t do anything wrong here – he is to blame.” ‘Bleeding with anger’ That’s how the 22-year-old niece described her feelings,
four years after the incident, in a heartfelt statement read out in court by
the prosecutor. “It’s heartbreaking that I’ll never be able to be proud of
myself,” she said. “You took away my happiness. Every night I cry and ask
myself what did I ever do to you? I took you as my father, but you destroyed my
life.” She was also struggling to cope and often thought about
killing herself, she said. Watching his child trying to come to terms with the
ordeal was painful, her father says. She was often depressed and tried to commit
suicide by overdosing on pills. “The emotional impact was severe. She was not eating and she
was crying all the time – day and night. “I asked her sister to skip school and
keep a watch on her because she was an emotional wreck. “She would wake up, use
the toilet and go back to bed.” He believes sexual abuse isn’t just about the
act of violence itself but also about the shame that follows. “There was a time she was afraid to go outside or walk in
the neighbourhood because she imagined every person on the street was going to
point fingers at her and whisper that she was the girl who was raped by
Brickz.” The family decided to take her to The Teddy Bear Clinic for
abused children for counselling. But whatever good counselling did would be
undone in court. “She could be better one moment and sink into depression
when she watched news about the rape trial on TV. “It was a very difficult for her. Whenever she heard
Brickz’s music she started crying and locked herself for days in her bedroom. “This
really broke my heart. I wished their mother was still alive. “But I have to be
a mother and father to her.” The father is a great believer in the power of forgiveness and
tried numerous times to unite the two families. When the musician was out on
bail he went to Brickz’s house with a pastor to talk to him. “I know how important one’s maternal family is so I wanted
to make peace with them, but he wasn’t willing to make peace,” he says. He also
tried to get Brickz to confess and apologise for what he’d done to no avail, he
says. “We sat down and
talked. I told him what he did to my child was disgusting. I told him to ask
for forgiveness and I would speak to my daughter to see if she could forgive
him. But he insisted he was innocent.” When all attempts to get an apology from the Sweety My Baby
hitmaker failed, the father stepped back and let the law take its course. I
remember saying to him ‘I’ll see you in the court then’.” Brickz’s family
hadn’t responded to calls for comment at the time of going to print. Now the father doesn’t see himself forgiving Brickz because
when the magistrate was summing up his judgement, the musician had a smile on
his face. This isn’t the end of the world – that’s the lesson he’s
trying to get across to his still traumatised daughter. Seeing her struggling
to cope, he decided to sit her down and speak to her about rape survivors who’ve
also gone through similar ordeals and are successful today. “I told her about
Oprah Winfrey whose net worth of billions started with pain and eventually
ended in triumph.” Oprah was nine years old when she was first abused and has
often spoken out against molestation. During a talk in 2012 at Ball State University in Indiana, America,
the media mogul said, “Anybody who has been verbally abused or physically
abused will spend a great deal of their life rebuilding their esteem.” Which is what his daughter is now going through, according
to her father. They’re going to slowly pick up the pieces, he says. “I told her about Rebecca Malope and others [who had
traumatic experiences].” The niece is now putting her energy into her father’s
delivery business and he hopes she’ll continue with her studies once she’s
ready. “If Oprah lived through hell and picked herself up to be one
of the most respected women in the world, so can my daughter. She can rebuild
her life. It’s not going to be easy but she can do it.” Giving up, he says,
isn’t an option. *This article was previously in Drum Magazine. Brickz was recently granted R80 000 bail in the Roodepoort
Magistrate's Court on Friday, pending an appeal against his rape conviction. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  