Christina Pitt Hashim Amla (Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Veteran actress Lillian Dube, former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke and Proteas star Hashim Amla will be among those receiving South Africa’s top honours at the National Orders investiture ceremony on Saturday. National Orders are the highest awards bestowed on citizens and eminent foreign nationals who have made a significant impact in improving the lives of South Africans. "The National Orders also recognise the contributions made by individuals who contributed to a non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa as envisaged in our Constitution," said Chancellor of the National Orders Dr Cassius Lubisi. "This is the 24th Investiture ceremony since the inception of the new National Orders system, contributing towards unity, reconciliation and nation-building," he said. President Cyril Ramaphosa will bestow the Order of Ikhamanga, the Order of the Baobab, the Order of Luthuli, and the Order of the Companions of OR Tambo. The Order of Ikhamanga recognises South African citizens who have excelled in the fields of arts, culture, literature, music, journalism and sport. Recipients include journalist Traci Mackie, jazz artist Sipho "Hotstix" Mabuse, and former Springbok captain John Smit for his contribution and leadership in the sport of rugby. Amla gets it for his contribution to the sport of cricket. "He has brought pride to our country with his many batting firsts in the international cricket arena and remains one of the leading batsmen of our time," Lubisi said. 'Healing to the nation' Lillian Dube receives the award for her contribution to the performing arts and "raising awareness in women’s health issues through storytelling". "Her creative ways of dealing with serious subjects through humour has been healing to the nation," Lubisi explained. The Order of the Baobab recognises South African citizens who have contributed to community service, business and economy, science, medicine and technological innovation. Maduke Ndlovu and Violet Seboni will be honoured posthumously with silver awards for their contributions to the development of black commerce and the struggle for the rights of workers. Nkosinathi Freddy Ndlovu will also receive a silver Order of the Baobab award for his contribution to the fight for the recognition of the rights of people with disabilities. The Order of Luthuli recognises South Africans who have contributed to the struggle for democracy, nation building, building democracy and human rights, justice and peace, and the resolution of conflict. Former Constitutional Court Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke’s "outstanding contribution to the field of law and the administration of justice in South Africa has made him a deserving beneficiary of The Order of Luthuli," Lubisi said. "Through his leadership, our fledgling democracy has continually administered justice without fear, favour or prejudice." 'Fight against race, gender and class oppression' Lillian Diedericks gets the Order of Luthuli for her "fight for the liberation of women in South Africa". Diedericks was one of the leaders of 1956 march to the Union Buildings to protest against pass laws. The Order of Luthuli will also be bestowed on Professor Farid Esack for his research and his "fight against race, gender and class oppression". Another leader of the 1950s anti-pass campaign, Dora Tamana, will posthumously receive a gold award for promoting the rights of workers. The Order of the Companions of OR Tambo recognises eminent foreign nationals for friendship shown to South Africa. It was an "order of peace, cooperation and active expression of solidarity and support," Lubisi said. "This order is bestowed in gold to ambassadors [former Mozambican president] Joaquim Chissano, [former president of Botswana] Sir Quett Ketumile Joni Masire, [former Namibian president] Dr Samuel Nujoma and [former Liberian president] Ellen Sirleaf, who have all worked tirelessly to ensure that South Africans are liberated from oppression." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  