Abram Mashego Danny Jordaan (City Press). Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Soccer boss Danny Jordaan has laid criminal charges against singer and former Member of Parliament Jennifer Ferguson. On Friday he went to Sandton police station where he made a sworn statement, asking the police to charge Ferguson with defamation. In March, Ferguson laid a charge of rape against Jordaan for sexually assaulting her in a Port Elizabeth hotel 24 years ago, almost five months after she had accused him on social media. Jordaan, the former mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay, has repeatedly denied the accusation. His lawyers had reportedly said he wouldn’t sue Ferguson for defamation. A senior police officer who is privy to the details contained in case number 754/04/2018 said Jordaan wants to stop Ferguson from making “defamatory” and “false statements” against him. “He [Jordaan] told officers that Ferguson has, on numerous occasions, continued to defame him on several public platforms including radio, social media and newspapers. Jordaan has indicated in his statement that attempts to prevent Ferguson from making the defamatory statements were ignored,” said a senior officer. Jordaan’s lawyer, Mamodupi Mohlala-Mulaudzi, confirmed that a case was opened. She was, however, not prepared to share more details about the case with City Press. “I confirm that my client opened a criminal case at the Sandton Police Station yesterday. I, unfortunately, am not at liberty to share the statement right now,” said Mohlala-Mulaudzi. Gauteng provincial spokesperson Mathapelo Peters said more statements and evidence will be gathered before the docket is handed to the National Prosecuting Authority for prosecutorial guidance and a decision on whether to prosecute or not. Ferguson opened her case last month in Parkview, Johannesburg, and the case was then transferred to Port Elizabeth, where the alleged incident took place. The musician has repeatedly said she preferred “restorative justice”, where the two of them would meet face-to-face in a mediation process similar to South Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission. “Despite this offer, he chose not to engage with me and denied the allegation through a media statement … This decision has come out after many months of discussions, legal advice and deep personal consideration,” Ferguson said during an interview with City Press after formally laying the charges last month. Ferguson said for many years she had grappled with what to do about what happened to her. She said her actions were inspired by the social-media hashtag #MeToo, which encouraged rape victims not to die in silence. The #MeToo movement began in October, using social media to help demonstrate the widespread prevalence of sexual assault and harassment of women, especially in the workplace. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  