Earl Haupt @Earl Haupt Five men have been arrested for various shooting incidents in Parkwood Estate over Easter Weekend. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Grassy Park police arrested five suspects in connection with a shooting incident in Parkwood Estate over the Easter weekend. The arrests were made on Thursday when five men between the ages of 17 and 34 were taken into custody at the Grassy Park Police Station. According to police spokesperson, Warrant Officer Wynita Kleinsmith, the incident happened just after 03:20 when police were called out to a shooting in Hoosain Parkers Walk where a 26-year-old man was killed. In another incident on Monday morning, two men were shot at by another two men in Abdullah Moosa Walk. “The complainant alleged that he and a friend were walking when two men started to shoot at them. Several shots were fired at them, and his friend, aged 19, was shot in the right leg,” says Kleinsmith, who adds that the incident is believed to be gang related and that police are still on the lookout for the suspects. Kleinsmith adds that on Tuesday morning, another man was shot dead in Ivy Road. “The deceased and his friend were sitting and smoking drugs in Ivy Road when they were shot by unknown suspects. The victim was shot in the face three times while two other men were also shot. One was shot on the left side of his ribcage, while the other was shot in the stomach.” Also on Tuesday morning, police found a 25-year-old man shot dead in Parkers Walk. Kleinsmith says he had two gunshot wounds to the back of the head and witnesses allege that he was shot by an unknown man. Meanwhile, Grassy Park Community Policing Forum’s Philip Bam is concerned that the community’s plight has fallen on deaf ears, particularly at national government level. “Four people were killed, but Bheki Cele, the minister of police is in Nyanga today [Thursday] where the other four was killed, but they don’t come to Parkwood Estate where there are a few of our people killed almost every month. We have not seen the minister of police in our area. We need the minister of police to come to Grassy Park. We have issues which we need corrected over here,” says Bam. He says that although the CPF have not approached the national police ministry directly, he feels that they should have taken note of the incidents as residents sensed there would be a flare-up following the weekend’s events. “If he (Cele) can find the time to go to Nyanga, he can find the time to come to Grassy Park. We have not yet officially asked him to come, but I suppose those people did not ask him to come, but anyway that is another story. We were expecting that there would be a gang flare up again in that area, but now it would appear that [a gang is] moving into Parkwood. That is what I hear from the police,” he adds. V 
  Anyone with information on crime can call the police on 021 700 3940 or Crime Stop on 0860 010 111. All information will be treated as highly confidential. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  