Ajay Gupta and South African businessman Justin van Pletzen. (Justin van Pletzen via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Hawks says it has received many tip-offs relating to Ajay Gupta who is in Dubai, there has been a breakthrough in the violent murders of six mineworkers and the long-delayed renewable power deals have been signed. Here is a selection of our leading stories of the day: PICS: Vicki Momberg appears in court with cornrowsFormer real estate agent Vicki Momberg has appeared in the Randburg Magistrate's Court with cornrows ahead of her application for leave to appeal. 'Winnie rose above her mistakes', says teary Rivonia trialist Denis GoldbergIn an interview with News24, Denis Goldberg speaks of how painful it was for him to witness repeated attempts to break Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's spirit, adding that she broke the mould and rose above her mistakes.     Ajay Gupta 'must just hand himself over' - HawksAjay Gupta must "just hand himself over", Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said after South African businessman Justin van Pletzen filmed a relaxed Gupta in Dubai.Caster leads SA at Commonwealth Games opening ceremonyTeam South Africa received a warm welcome at the opening ceremony of the 2018 Commonwealth Games on Australia's Gold Coast.SA's flag bearer Caster Semenya held the country's flag high, while retired Paralympian Natalie du Toit was one of the flag bearers for the newly found Athletes Advisory Commission of the Commonwealth Games. Gigaba's 'untruths' need to be 'given serious attention' - RamaphosaPresident Cyril Ramaphosa said he is giving "due and proper consideration" to a ruling that Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba "deliberately told untruths under oath" relating to a terminal for the Oppenheimer family at OR Tambo International Airport. 5 arrested for murder of miners who were burnt beyond recognitionFive men have been arrested for the violent murders of six Modikwa Platinum Mine workers outside Driekop, in Limpopo. Jeff Radebe signs long-delayed renewable power dealsEnergy Minister Jeff Radebe has signed agreements with 27 independent power producers after more than two years of delays. More questions than answers after Cape Town shooting leaves 3 children, man deadMany questions have been raised about what led a gang to open fire on a vehicle in Browns Farm, leaving a man, two teenagers and a 12-year-old dead, said the local community policing forum chairperson Martin Makasi.Cape Town water consumption 'stabilised'Water use in the City of Cape Town has stabilised at lower levels compared to the beginning of the year, said Deputy Mayor Ian Neilson.Mnangagwa blows millions on China trip – reportZimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly splashed out at least $2.3m on his recent trip to China, according to a report.*Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  