Mandla Mahashe Disabled residents from ward 99 attended a two day programme this week to be educated about heritage. PHOTO: Mandla Mahashe Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tuesday and Wednesday were a good day for the disabled residents in Ward 99 as they were pampered during a Heritage Programme. This programme begins with a two-day workshop for people living with disabilities and will conclude with a trip to Robben Island. Ward 99 includes Khayelitsha’s eNdlovini, Kuyasa and Mitchell’s Plain, Tafelsig. According to councillor Bongani Ngcani, the programme hopes to remind the disabled that they have not been forgotten. Close to 70 people with different forms of disabilities were part of the program. “People living with disabilities always complain that they are often neglected by the community and they feel isolated so this programme is to change that(perception). They will be taken to a workshop where they are taught about the history of Cape Town. They will be catered for and it will end with a trip to Robben Island where they will learn more about the history of the country,” he said. Ngcani said that this was the first initiative and that he hopes to continue with such events. “We are initiating this initiative and we hope to continue to make them feel happy and wanted by the community. This will educate them about our City and ultimately make them feel good. They will also be certified for being part of this project” he said. Osman Nkohla, from Endlovini, said that he was happy to be out and about learning about his city. “We do feel neglected because we not always included in such activities. I am very excited, I cant wait to the island,” he said. Another resident Niocolene Isaacs from Freedom Park in Tafelsig said that it was a breath of fresh air. “It’s a nice change, eating at home and to get out and do activities,” she said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  