Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip has survived yet another special council meeting where he was expected to face a motion of no confidence, after the meeting descended into chaos once again and was 'permanently adjourned'. Jump to
                    bottom Trollip: "Councillor Lungisa was overheard telling the councillors, his councillors, to collapse the council meeting - that is their strategy, and councillor Bobani is very much part of that strategy." Trollip says Bobani may have been better behaved than usual, but "is very much part of the intention to collapse this administration".  Trollip: "We are not going to allow the ANC to take the city back through the backdoor... We believe that more sober opposition parties are going to come on board to allow this coalition government to do its work."  Athol Trollip is currently addressing a media briefing, while the opposition councillors who remained behind in council chambers continue with their caucus. (Image: Derrick Spies/News24) Trollip urges the media: Please tell it as it is. Was it the speaker or the parties who wanted to collapse the meeting in chaos? DA and coalition partners stream out of council chambers.  After all the interruptions, Speaker Lawack rises from his seat with finality, and says the meeting is now "permanently adjourned".  WATCH LIVE: (via SABC) Council descends into a shouting match once again.  Councillors now speaking over each other, including the speaker, who says he will no longer allow points of order.  DA councillor Bhanga drowned out while addressing council.  Opposition parties have broken out into humming and singing while Bhanga speaks.  Chaos has erupted once again in council chambers, during the time given to councillors to simply pay tribute to fallen struggle icons - the matters at hand have not been touched on yet. Lawack calls for order.  Daniels' time is cut short after all the interruptions, and he wraps up.  PA councillor Daniels says that when people refer to slitting the throat of the white man, it is no different to hanging at the gallows. A back and forth argument ensues.  Cope councillor Sijadu says the ANC denied Madikizela-Mandela her rightful place, and history will judge them.  Next up is councillor Sijadu from Cope, #NMBCouncilVote #TrollipVote @TeamNews24 Councillor Boyeye concludes by saying the issue of land expropriation without compensation must be implemented in Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's memory.  Boyeye says one of Winnie Mandela's key issues was the land, saying she was against the concept of winning buyer, willing seller, as she knew her people did not have the capital to buy the land. #NMBCouncilVote #TrollipVote @TeamNews24 There appears to be some sort of commotion outside council chambers.  There is some commotion taking place outside council, shouting can be heard through the closed doors, but council continues, while Boyeye addresses them on Mama Winnie. #NMBCouncilVote #TrollipVote @TeamNews24 Jump to
                top