Former president Jacob Zuma's corruption case has been postponed to June 8 following a brief appearance in the Durban High Court.  Jump to
                    bottom They will regret reinstating these charges - Zuma "One day they will wish [the case never] continued". These were
 the words former president Jacob Zuma spoke when he addressed a sea of 
supporters, dressed in the African National Congress colours of green, 
gold, and black, outside the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on 
Friday morning after his brief appearance. Van Rooyen, Motsoeneng, Lungisa lend Zuma support in court Former president Jacob Zuma had the support of senior African National Congress KwaZulu-Natal leaders and former cabinet ministers when he made his first appearance at the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Friday. Zuma was flanked by former minister of cooperative and traditional affairs Des van Rooyen and Eastern Cape ANC heavyweight Andile Lungisa as he walked up the steps into the court building. Inside Court Room A, former SABC chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng could be seen sitting on a bench near ANC KwaZulu-Natal leader Sihle Zikalala. ANALYSIS: 4 ways Zuma could postpone justice in his corruption case Former president Jacob Zuma appeared in the dock of the Durban High Court for the first time since 2009, as accused number one in the corruption case against him. Finally getting the day in court he has been asking for, political and legal experts believe Friday's court appearance is only the beginning of a legal battle that Zuma will try his utmost to postpone for as long as possible. Despite the State indicating that it was ready to proceed with its case against the former president at the earliest available date (November 12), several factors could see Zuma's prosecution being dragged out for years. 7 Things You Need To Know About Advocate Billy Downer The man tasked with prosecuting Jacob Zuma on 16 charges of fraud, corruption, money laundering and racketeering. Downer asked the high court in Durban to postpone Jacob Zuma's trial to June 8. Meanwhile, Zuma is expected to file his review application on May 15.A deputy director of public prosecutions in the Western Cape, the veteran prosecutor is familiar with former president Zuma. Here are seven things you may not know about Downer: 'Blacks Are Now Saying It Is Enough' – What Zuma Told His Supporters Thank you to the master of ceremonies and all your prayers. I wish God gives you strength so prayers quickly reach him so issues are quickly resolved. Pastors who are this brave are commendable. You stand for God's truth.I see other leaders here - premier of the province - Willies Mchunu. Women and youth leaders in the province are also here. All of you here I want to personally thank for you and thank you as you did many years ago. There aren't so many nice things that follow you even if you try to avoid those things. #ZumaCharges: Zuma says the charges have again been reinstated due to political agendas.@TeamNews24 #ZumaCharges: Zuma says there are some people, even those he trusted, "who have judged me as guilty already. The truth will be revealed in time". @TeamNews24 #ZumaCharges says the arms deal was handled by national government while he was an MEC, maybe I was there in spirit #ZumaCharges he thanks the crowd for supporting him, they did then and are doing so now, speaks of being innocent until proven otherwise but some want to treat him like he's already a criminal, people he trusted who want him treated like a criminal Jump to
                top