Tshidi Madia ANC flag. (Thulani Mbele, Sowetan, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC in Gauteng has expelled one party member and suspended five others for their behaviour during the lead up to its watershed 54th national elective conference last year. The party's disciplinary committee said in a statement on Tuesday that the six were found guilty of disorderly behaviour and of disrupting ANC meetings. In the lead up to the conference, factional battles spilled over into branch meetings, where party members were expected to nominate their preferred candidates for top leadership positions. During the presidential race for the successor to former party president Jacob Zuma, factions supporting Cyril Ramaphosa and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma accused each other of intimidation. "The 54th national conference identified member ill-discipline as a key challenge confronting the movement," chairperson of the ANC Gauteng disciplinary committee Ismail Vadi said. Thabang Nkani of the Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association, has been expelled from the ANC, while Tshwane regional executive committee member Eugene Modise was suspended for five years. Johannes Setsoma, Victor Malefane and Joseph Rammela were suspended for three years and Phumzile Masuku and Modise were suspended for two years. Nkani was expelled from the ANC with immediate effect. "They have been found guilty of behaving in a disorderly manner and disrupting ANC meetings, sowing political disunity and division, and undermining the structures of the party," Vadi said. He added that, of the six members, five who were from the Ekurhuleni region, were charged for contravening the ANC's constitution. The six members were informed of the outcome on Monday and have been given 21 days to appeal.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  