Caster Semenya. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Motorists are in for a steep petrol price hike, more delays in the Sassa saga and claims of mismanagement rocks the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse. Have a look at some of our leading stories making headlines: SASCOC disappointed with IAAF ruling, back CasterSASCOC has 
voiced its disappointment with the decision taken by the IAAF to amend 
their classification for athletes with differences of sexual 
development. SA billionaire Christo Wiese sues Steinhoff for R59bnCompanies in Christo Wiese’s Titan Group announced on Thursday they are suing embattled retailer Steinhoff for R59bn.SA cellphone users will soon be allowed to carry over unused data - IcasaThe Independent Communications Authority of South Africa has announced four new regulations to end-user and subscriber services charters. WATCH: How Saldanha dodged its Day ZeroWhile Cape Town has been breathing a sigh of relief following rains, the West Coast has narrowly escaped its own Day Zero that would have had a disastrous impact on several small towns in the Saldanha Bay Municipality. Detective: I found nothing to indicate Jason Rohde was a wife beaterThe investigating officer assigned to probe Susan Rohde's death at the Spier estate in Stellenbosch says he could not find anything to suggest her husband Jason assaulted her during their marriage.Another petrol price knock for SA motoristsThe price of petrol will increase by 49c a litre on 2 May, Minister of Energy Jeff Radebe announced.Sassa: More delays to find CPS replacement as minister suspends tender processNew social development minister Susan Shabangu has suspended Sassa's current tender processes to find a new service provider to replace Cash Paymaster Services, court papers have shown.'It is a smear campaign', says OUTA CEO on claims of bad governanceThe
 CEO of the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse, Wayne Duvenage, on Thursday 
hit back at former executives who have accused him of mismanagement and 
bypassing the board. State closes its case in Karabo Mokoena murder trialThe State has rested its case with testimony from guards who worked at the apartment building where murder accused Sandile Mantsoe lived at the time of the death of his girlfriend, Karabo Mokoena.Mugabe's son-in-law: 'I worked in hotels, cleaning toilets in US'Ex-president Robert Mugabe's son in law, Simba Chikore, has reportedly described himself as a "simple young Zimbabwean man", who struggled to finance his own education while studying in the United States. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  