Christina Pitt (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police in KwaZulu-Natal have arrested two suspects accused of shooting a teenager in the back during a house robbery earlier this month. The men allegedly shot the boy when they broke into a residential estate on the R102 Old Main Road in Pennington on April 20. A case of house robbery and attempted murder was registered by the Scottburgh police for investigation. On Monday, police followed up on a tip-off that the two suspects were hiding 37km away in the rural village of Dududu. "They were traced to a house in Dududu and upon seeing police, one of the suspects drew a firearm and took aim at the police who retaliated, wounding him in the chest region," police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said. Both suspects were arrested and a 9mm pistol with six live rounds of ammunition was recovered by police. The wounded suspect is under police guard in hospital. TV, laptop stolen On the day of the robbery, it is alleged that the teen's father had left the home at 03:00 and the youngster shut the door without locking it and went to bed. "A short while later he got up to check on why the dogs were barking and confronted two unknown men who had taken a TV and a laptop from the house," said Gwala. "One of the men was armed with a gun. The victim's 17-year-old brother came to assist and a scuffle ensued. The suspect with the gun shot the 14-year-old victim in the back and both suspects fled the scene with the stolen property." The suspects face charges of house robbery and attempted murder. They are expected to appear in the Scottburgh Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. If the wounded suspect is still in hospital, he will appear upon his discharge. The wounded suspect also faces charges of being in unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition as well as of pointing of a firearm. He will appear in the Vulamehlo Magistrate's Court on those charges.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  