Istock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Thousands of villages in Zimbabwe’s Marange diamond fields were this week reportedly
met by armed soldiers and police, who teargassed them as they protested the
looting of the country's diamond revenue. According to Human Rights Watch (HRW), police fired teargas canisters to
disperse the demonstrators on Monday. "The police argued that the protest had not been authorised under the
repressive Public Order Security Act (POSA), which severely limits freedom of
association, public debate and criticism of the government," HRW said in a statement. Watch the video and see pictures below posted on Twitter Former president Robert Mugabe's regime was accused of siphoning off diamond
profits. Mugabe himself in 2016, while providing no evidence, told the state broadcaster
that diamonds worth more than $15 billion had been looted in Marange. No one had been held to account for the alleged looting. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox:  SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook "After years of alleged diamond revenue looting by state-owned companies,
with no benefits to the local communities, the villagers’ protest is an
indication that patience is wearing thin," HRW said. Mugabe, however, recently retracted his remarks over the alleged missing diamond
revenue amid investigations by the national assembly. The veteran politician told the privately owned Zimbabwe
Independent that the "whole $15bn loot was an urban legend that had no
factual basis". He said the claim was just a figure that was given to him by some government
official at the time. "It was just a figure. I was given that by some officials, that figure
had been circulating around, but really it was not confirmed; it was just a
story and there was that figure involved," Mugabe was quoted as saying. Mugabe, according to AFP,
was now set to be summoned to testify before a parliamentary committee that was
investigating the looting.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  