Dustin Homer (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories “Bob is
gone.” At the end of November 2017, under intense pressure, Robert Mugabe
stepped down as president of Zimbabwe – a position the controversial leader had
held for 30 years. Global response to the news was cautiously optimistic. Even
within the country, celebration was muted. With the transition underway, what
will it take to make things better in Zimbabwe? Can the fragile economy of a
country once known as the “Bread Basket of Africa” now be revived as one of the
continent’s contemporary greats? And how should international investors
approach opportunities in Zimbabwe? There are
no simple answers or guaranteed outcomes. And good information on Zimbabwe is
hard to come by. But sophisticated data analysis—like the work done by
Fraym—can be used to illustrate promising opportunities for commercial ventures
and social development.  Both have the
power to measurably improve the lives of Zimbabweans. There’s no
question that the Zimbabwean economy was decimated during Mugabe’s regime. Record-breaking
hyperinflation, high unemployment (only 53% of working-age adults are employed),
periodic fuel and food shortages, crippling public debt – officially sitting at $11.6bn (82% of GDP) as of last year – and, most
recently, a chronic lack of cash, have all afflicted the country since the
early 2000s. Despite all
this, Zimbabwe remains abundant in natural resources. In 2017, meanwhile, Harare ranked 51st on the Fraym
Urban Markets Index, a first-time assessment of Africa’s major urban centres. Zimbabwe’s
other major urban areas, Bulawayo and Chitungwiza, ranked 121 and 149
respectively on the Index, which analysed 169 populous urban areas across the
continent according to three vectors: economic activity, consumer behaviour and
economic connectivity. Using a multi-tiered approach, this type of geospatial
data analysis provides a more nuanced, accurate and emotionally detached picture
for investors—who are so often geographically removed from the markets they’re
investigating. It’s not
just about recognising commercial market potential, though. Data science
techniques can also be used to guide Zimbabwe’s social development efforts. For example, the proportion of adults with post-secondary education in
the country has doubled over the past decade (currently 17%). How can this be
further accelerated? The
first step of the process is to specifically identify where to target scarce
financial and human resources. In a place like Zimbabwe, many people in
poverty-affected communities are hard to reach and difficult to account for in
official statistics. Geospatial data analysis tackles that challenge,
turning to a combination of satellite imagery, pre-existing data sets and
sophisticated algorithms to paint a more precise population picture of these inaccessible
areas. Fraym has
constructed models that allow us to understand issues and dynamics such as
employment, literacy, child nutrition and mortality, infrastructure and even
attitudes to domestic violence. For example, we uncovered that 36% of rural Zimbabwean
children stop attending school after or during primary school. We brought together
data like this to pinpoint the most vulnerable communities in Zimbabwe. These spotlighted areas,
unsurprisingly far away from urban centres, can then be targeted to rectify
inequalities in resource access, and encourage economic revival. The African Development Bank is now
using a similar technology-driven identification strategy to catalyse activities by companies,
governments, and NGOs in the poorest and most vulnerable communities across the
continent. One final
point about Zimbabwe is that even in uncertain periods, opportunity exists. For
example, the cash shortages of the past few years resulted in a wholesale
embrace of digital banking, largely out of necessity. Mobile
phone ownership is high in both urban and
rural Zimbabwe: 85% of rural Zimbabweans have access to mobile phones in their
households, and that rate is as high as 98% in urban Zimbabwe. As already mentioned in another piece, the Ecocash mobile-enabled funds
transfer service has become a staple of daily life in Zimbabwe, to the extent
that electronic money now accounts for 70% of all payments in the country. Several digital banking services, like Mukuru,
have also emerged to cater for the Zimbabwean diaspora sending remittances back
home. Looking at
these examples, digital tools are already available for decision-makers in
Zimbabwe. Accessed and used optimally, these tools – and the many other technology-driven
solutions yet to be explored – can enable economic revival and accelerate
social development in a nation with much potential. Fraym is a
venture-backed geospatial data analytics company focused exclusively on the
African continent. Their platform is the only source of hyper-local,
population-centred data in Africa. Powered by the best collection of African
consumers’ economic and social indicators, Fraym is revolutionising
decision-making across the continent. From their offices in Washington, D.C.
and Lagos, Nigeria, they work with investors, companies, foundations, agencies,
and financial institutions to address previously unanswerable questions that
have, until now, hindered business growth on the continent. Fraym’s
proprietary platform produces over 2000 unique indicators across nearly 200
African cities, to provide customers with unparalleled insight into some of the
world’s fastest-growing markets.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  