Pam Magwaza PHOTO: Google + Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former president Jacob Zuma is set to tie the knot again – and has fathered a child with a woman named Nonkanyiso Conco, according to reports. The former president is reportedly engaged to Nonkanyiso and has already paid lobola for her, but there isn’t much known about the mystery woman as they’ve never been seen together. The 24-year-old rumoured fiancée also gave birth to what is believed to be Zuma’s 23rd child last week at Busamed Hillcrest Private Hospital in KwaZulu-Natal. The baby was reportedly born on Zuma’s 76th birthday on 12 April, according to News24. Zuma has been married six times but currently has four wives: Gertrude Sizakele Khumalo, Nompumelelo Ntuli, Tobeka Madiba and Gloria Bongi Ngema. If reports are true, Nonkanyiso will become Mrs Zuma number seven. Zuma divorced former AU chair Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in 1998 and his third wife, Kate Mantsho, committed suicide in 2000. This is what we know about Nonkanyiso Conco so far: 1.      She is the director of the Pietermaritzburg-based Nomkhubulwane Culture and Youth Development Organisation according to a 2013 article on the Reed Dance, which she was quoted in.  2.      She has been attending the Umhlanga Reed Dance for over 21 years, according to an article in The Mercury – which she was also quoted in.  3.      She is reportedly from Ballito – one of the most expensive areas in KwaZulu-Natal.  4.      She is a firm believer in the Reed Dance. In an interview about defending virginity testing with IOL in 2013, she was quoted as, “We participate in virginity testing out of love for our bodies, and we love to be part of the Reed Dance.” 5.      She appears to be a firm ANC and Zuma supporter – if her Twitter is anything to go by. "@City_Press: Be patient with ANC govt – Jacob Zuma: http://t.co/Trn7aVi3ki! This country won't be perfect over 20 years! "@mailandguardian: Address by President Jacob Zuma on the departure of former president Nelson Mandela. Haba ngoxolo tata! "@News24: DA should stop challenging Zuma,and should start focusing on things that will make this country better! Don't believe this OMG!!! Am going back to that Hollywood house,to spend the whole weekend this time!#Zuma's home @ Nkandla! Whop can't wait  The account has been inactive since 2014.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  