Christina Pitt Police react to crowd violence during the Nedbank Cup Semi Final match between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars at Moses Mabhida Stadium. (Anesh Debiky, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The two men charged with public violence and malicious damage to property following a pitch invasion at Moses Mabhida Stadium will appear in the Durban Magistrates' Court on Monday. Moses Mabhida dissolved into chaos on Saturday night when fans invaded the pitch following the Kaizer Chiefs' 2-0 loss to the Free State Stars during the Nedbank Cup semi-final. Police had to use tear gas and stun grenades to disperse the unruly fans that could be seen hurling chairs and beating security officials. READ: Beaten Moses Mabhida stadium guard 'seriously injured, but stable' Footage shows a security guard being severely beaten by fans, leading to some on social media on Sunday speculating she may have died. "One security guard has been hospitalised, but I'm not certain about the condition," said police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala. Crisis Medical spokesperson Kyle van Reenen told News24 earlier on Sunday that the security guard was seriously injured, but stable. WATCH: Chaos at Moses Mabhida Stadium after Chiefs lose in Nedbank Cup Stadium management on Sunday said the guard was in fact a man, contrary to reports that the guard was a woman,  The Mercury reported. No woman was injured in the incident. The scenes were widely criticised on social media and by all in the sporting community. Sports Minister Tokozile Xasa and the Premier Soccer League were among those to slam the behaviour of the Kaizer Chiefs fans, and called on stadium management to address the incident. *CORRECTION: A previous version of the story said that Stadium Management South Africa registered its 'grave concern' over the gruesome assault of the security guard. This is incorrect. Stadium Management South Africa was not involved with security on the evening. We apologise for any harm this mistake may have caused.  READ: Sports Minister Xasa 'appalled' by Moses Mabhida stadium chaos KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  