 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories REACH For Recovery, a support group designed to help women with breast cancer in their return to daily life, has trained new volunteers to join the groups in Uitenhage and Port Elizabeth. Estelle Botha, Chairlady of Reach For Recovery Uitenhage Group said she still remembers the early days of the support group, operating with only three trained volunteers and a secretary. Reach For Recovery Uitenhage breast cancer support group was established in 2007. “I look back with fondest memories of all the ladies that have crossed our path. Especially the visits to newly diagnosed patients and encouraging them not to give up,” said Botha. “With the new group now, we can only go from strength to strength and hope that we will be able to stretch our wings and reach a vast group of women of all cultures across Nelson Mandela Bay.” Reach For Recovery is built on a simple principle, that of a women who has experienced breast cancer herself, volunteering to give freely of her time and experience to assist another woman with breast cancer. These volunteers are trained and render an emotional care and practical support programme to newly diagnosed breast cancer patients as well as to their families. Botha, who is a founder member of the local Reach For Recovery branch is, apart from the newly trained volunteers, also supported by long time volunteers who after all the years are still active. They are Rachel Brinkhuis, Eleanore van Niekerk, Margaret Jacobs and Jacky van Straaten. Reach For Recovery services are done at no charge to the patient and are available to any women who requests them. Each branch has to sustain itself through localised fundraising and the support of its community. “We would like to thank one and all who have made a contribution towards Reach for Recovery Uitenhage. Without your donations we would not be able to carry on the work that we do. “We are indeed grateful to you for your enthusiastic support, which helps us to assist those in need in our community,” said Botha. Local institutions and individuals who have fulfilled a prominent role in supporting Reach For Recovery Uitenhage, and to whom the support group is very appreciative include: Uitenhage Bowling Club, VLV Hane-kam, Kenneth Botha, Klinicare Uitenhage, Klinicare Despatch, Levyvale Superspar, Riebeek College Girls High School, Fuel on Wheels, AEGIS Outsourcing SA and Lumotech. -HEILIE COMBRINCK 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  