Former safety and security minister Sydney Mufamadi, in response to claims in a documentary that he was behind a probe into Winnie Madikizela-Mandela aimed at discrediting her, has reiterated it was Tony Leon who was behind the reopening of the investigation. Jump to
                    bottom And with that final statement, Mufamadi ends the briefing.  Mufamadi: "In this documentary I see a Nelson Mandela that is not known to the people of South Africa." "We must not forget that we have something that no other country has, and that is Nelson Mandela. I listened to many people who were suddenly beginning to forget this prized asset."  What I came here to say, Mufamadi says, is that "we must not be misled by people who were opposed to our freedom, into thinking that we must act according to what they tell us about us. That is really the message I wanted to convey to the people of South Africa."  Mufamadi: "I had no indication that someone had wanted me to appear on the documentary... I have no indication someone thought I was important enough to give my version in the documentary..." "I don't know what must happen going forward," Mufamadi says, while also saying he didn't call a press conference for an apology.  Mufamadi: "Why are we taking Tony Leon out of the equation? I am saying these investigations took place at the behest of Tony Leon - I'm talking about the ones that we know, right? They took place at the behest of Tony Leon."  Mufamadi responds: "Yes... if I talk about what I remember in the context of having met him (Heslinga) we will be here all day. I may have met him at the Goldstone Commission, because I headed the peace desk of the ANC." "So I may have met him there - there was nothing outstanding about him when I met him."  Mufamadi is pointedly asked: "Did you ever meet Hank Heslinga, and were you aware of the fact that he was part of the team investigating Winnie Madikizela-Mandela?"  Mufamadi, while still answering questions from journalists, says "Remember, I am also a victim here..."  Mufamadi now speaks about Stratcom files, and mentions one specifically held on journalist and former Weekly Mail editor Anton Harber, who had asked for access to Stratcom files.  Mufamadi says there was a police investigation into Comrade Winnie, before they went into government. "Then when we went into government, Tony Leon goes to see the commissioner, and caused the commissioner to reopen the investigation." "People say, 'Comrade Sydney can't say he didn't know', and I never said I did not know, because commissioner Fivaz cannot do an investigation of that kind, without telling his minister..."  Mufamadi: "I don't remember sitting down with Paul Erasmus and having tea... I'm not saying it didn't happen, but I don't remember. In the position in which I was, I met many people."  Mufamadi said when he saw Heslinga's interview, he wondered, "What in God's world is happening, how can this man lie with such a straight face?"  Mufamadi is now taking questions.  Mufamadi: "I still maintain that those of us who fought for the liberation of this country alongside Comrade Winnie, are the authorities on what happened, and why it happened."  Mufamadi: "Hank Heslinga was seconded to the Goldstone Commission, unsolicited by the police. Of course they accepted him, but some credibility issues arose, as a result of which the commission said, 'Well, you gave us this man, unsolicited, thank you very much, you can have him back'. You can talk to Goldstone, he's still alive." "I'm sure they (the documentary filmmakers) did not know this part. Because they would have known that maybe Fivaz would've given them a more reliable account to anchor a chilling finding on a person whose place in history is the one I've just outlined." "It's not information that we could share in a way that I'm now being forced to share."  Mufamadi says he received a call from the EFF commander-in-chief, Julius Malema, last night. Says Malema told him that when he addresses the claims in the documentary during his briefing, he should do it in such a way that it doesn't cause more fighting. Mufamadi says he was receptive to Malema's advice.  Mufamadi: "You don't destroy someone, and then nominate them for a national award. It's an absurdity, to even suggest that." "So I'm saying Comrade Winnie's legacy, is not a matter of conjecture, the sort of conjectures you see in the documentary - 'perhaps the leadership of the ANC gave Nelson Mandela an ultimatum to divorce his wife'... oh please." "If the ANC were to say to me, 'Divorce your wife', I would tell them this is a private matter in relation to the ANC, it means you don't know your ANC if you give me that order. The ANC does not discuss those things."  Mufamadi: "Now I'm going to tell you a secret, which must remain a secret between us... The comrades had said to continue to reach out to Comrade Winnie... I get a call the night before we had to go to FNB Stadium, to receive Comrade Walter Sisulu and the other comrades who had just been released from prison, and I got a phone call from Europe." Mufamadi says he was asked to transcribe OR Tambo's speech given to him via telephone, and he had gone to Comrade Winnie to ask her to help him type it up, "walking through all the members of the Mandela United football club" to get to her.  Mufamadi makes reference to the Mandela United football club, and Madikizela-Mandela's involvement with it. Says the ANC had concerns about what was happening at the Mandela United football club.  Mufamadi: "Whether it happened deliberately or inadvertently, the story in the way it is told, it assimilates Comrade Winnie's positive legacy on balance... it assimilates that legacy, into the Stratcom narrative. You might as well just ask the chief of Stratcom operations to write a biography of Winnie Mandela, if you want to approach it this way, that the views of her own comrades must be subservient to the views of Stratcom..."  Mufamadi: "Killing of civilians on their part... was a political act."  Mufamadi: "Comrade Nomzamo Winnie Mandela went to the TRC - she had a conviction of kidnapping, and you needed amnesty for that. I also had a conviction of kidnapping, I kidnapped a policeman before 1994... I needed amnesty." "Comrade Winnie and I are not the only leaders who went to the Truth Commission, there are others who did."  Mufamadi: "You can see when you listen to Erasmus, that he planted himself on the wrong side... it's all he was trained to do, dividing the people." "It was a very difficult task we faced, when we got into government..." "By virtue of where I was sitting in that dispensation, I received delegations of people who were operatives in these Stratcom operations, especially the ones who were peeling away from Vlakplaas, which was one of the seats of Stratcom... I listened to chilling stories..."  Mufamadi says that there was a perception that "you could not be a member of the ANC, and not be radical," thanks to the work of Stratcom at the time.  Mufamadi: "We knew we had a responsibility to demilitarise the police."  Mufamadi: "We ran ethical governments in the ministry of safety and security and in the department of safety and security." Says he knows how things were run before 1994.  #WinnieDoccie speaking of the apartheid era police force: trained to do things that were chilling @TeamNews24 #WinnieDoccie Mufamadi: he must also credit me with some decent level of IQ. Why would I say to a police officer I am a member of the NEC? I had no time for irrelevancy @TeamNews24 Mufamadi makes reference to former police head Henk Heslinga, the "dramatis personae" in the documentary.  #WinnieDoccie Mufamadi: Heslinga is not a constable who just graduated from basic police training. Says operational issues lies with police commissioner. "I know what he's describing, he described how things used to be done before 1994" @TeamNews24 #WinnieDoccie Mufamadi says he was asked if he had an issue with the doccie being shown even though he was denied a right of reply, said it was okay, advocating for the right of the material to be shown @TeamNews24 #WinieDoccie Mufamadi says he opted to observe the period of mourning. Didn't want to taint her legacy (which is a shared legacy) he says @TeamNews24 #WinnieDoccie the chilling revelations according to Mufamadi incl: 40 journalists on the apartheid government's payroll, Arch Bishop Tutu's role at the TRC, that there's more to Chris Hani's murder than meets the eye & claims against Mufamadi @TeamNews24 Mufamadi mentions that the documentary is award-winning, and says he knows the documentary maker is "here", and then questions whether those who decided to give the documentary various awards had considered issues of ethics.  #WinnieDoccie Mufamadi questioning the ethics of those behind the film. Says it would have been fair to ask for a right of reply @TeamNews24 Mufamadi starts off by making direct reference to the documentary Winnie, directed by French filmmaker Pascale Lamche, and mentions the "five chilling revelations", with specific reference to revelation number five.  #WinnieDoccie Mufamadi says we are here to discuss revelation number 5, says he knows some are wondering why they've been quiet for this long @TeamNews24 Sydney Mufamadi wants to clear his name... pic.twitter.com/Cvb5nJFRr0 #WinnieDoccie alleges that Mufamadi who was the safety & security minister at the time asked the apartheid police to reopen investigations on Mama Winnie re: Stompie's murder @TeamNews24 At the St George's cathedral in Park Town Sydney Mufamadi holding a presser following some "chilling revelations" as he calls it from the #WinnieDoccie which played last week @TeamNews24 Jump to
                top