Struggle icon Chris Hani was the leader of the South African Communist Party and Umkhonto weSizwe. (File, Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bloem model walks alongside Naomi Campbell in Dolce & Gabbana fashion show, Zimbabwe parliament to summon Robert Mugabe over diamond mining and Athol Trollip effectively survives motion of no confidence after a meeting was permanently adjourned. Here are today's top stories: Trollip effectively survives motion of no confidence after meeting permanently adjourned Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip has effectively survived a motion of no confidence after a special council meeting to debate it was permanently adjourned. NPA indictment reveals details of Shaik's alleged bribes to Zuma Former president Jacob Zuma's adviser fraudster Schabir Shaik and French arms manufacturer Thales allegedly formed a common purpose to bribe the former president through a series of payments. Remembering Chris Hani 25 years after his death Hani was the leader of the South African Communist Party and chief of staff of uMkhonto we Sizwe, the armed wing of the African National Congress.  'Here to stay' Caster blitzes 34-year-old Budd record Caster Semenya dedicated her spectacular 1 500m Commonwealth Games gold medal to her country after the South African smashed Zola Budd's national record by more than a second. Hermanus on edge as land protesters appear in court Eleven out of 40 people arrested in protests after a thwarted "land grab" appeared in the Hermanus Magistrate's Court on Tuesday after being charged with public violence. Bloem model walks alongside Naomi Campbell in Dolce & Gabbana fashion show The almost 19-year-old Bloemfontein native strutted alongside industry veterans like Naomi Campbell, Karlie Kloss and Joan Smalls wearing a beautifully crafted D&G creation. Stunninggggg once again ?????? thank you and congratulations @dolcegabbana @stefanogabbana #dglovesnewyork #dolcegabbana A post shared by  Ansolet Rossouw ???? (@ansolet_rossouw) on Apr 10, 2018 at 5:21am PDT  I used to love Steve Hofmeyr, then I found out he was a racist It is not alright to show up in someone’s house, take over and then call them names to demean and dehumanise them, then centuries later tell them to get over it, writes Bombeleni Mavundza. Zimbabwe parliament to summon Mugabe over diamond mining A committee of lawmakers in Zimbabwe is to summon former president Robert Mugabe to testify at a probe into lost revenue from diamond mining, according to a legislator. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  