Chad le Clos. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An 8-year-old who shot her grandpa in the head ‘thought it was a toy gun’, the DA is gearing up for its federal congress and there's a swell of images celebrating black women being capped or having received their degrees. Here are some of the day's leading stories: WRAP: From Number 1 to Accused No 1Former president Jacob Zuma has appeared in the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban amid a crowd of supporters, who chanted his name.10 things you should know about The State vs Jacob ZumaAfter years of asking for it, former president Jacob Zuma's day in court has finally arrived. Here are 10 things you should know about The State vs Jacob Zuma.  Le Clos flies to Commonwealth Games goldSouth Africa's Chad le Clos moved a step closer to becoming the most successful athlete in Commonwealth Games history by sweeping to gold in the men's 50m butterfly.8-year-old who shot her grandpa in the head ‘thought it was a toy gun’A Randfontein man is currently in a critical condition in hospital after being shot by his granddaughter.WATCH: DA federal congress: 6 issues expected to take centre stageThe Democratic Alliance, the official opposition in the country, is to hold its 2018 federal congress this weekend to elect new leaders and reach several party resolutions.News24 Political Editor Mahlatse Mahlase looks at the issues that are expected to dominate. Solomon Mahlangu: A lasting reminder of the sacrifice for freedomDeputy
 President David Mabuza has visited Pretoria Central Prison to mark the 
39th anniversary of struggle icon Solomon Mahlangu's execution and to 
pay tribute to him.Ramaphosa refers Eskom allegations to Special Investigating UnitPresident
 Cyril Ramaphosa has referred allegations of mismanagement and graft at 
state power utility Eskom and rail and ports group Transnet to the 
Special Investigating Unit. Teenagers in love found slain at bottom of old mine shaftTwo teenagers who disappeared on their way home after Christmas were found months later, stabbed to death at the bottom of a mine shaft.Zac Efron’s bushy beard is giving us all the feels right now!You may remember catching feelings when the Baywatch actor shared a selfie that is all kinds of sexy in December. Zac then blessed his Insta followers with a snap showing off his stripy beard art. Hey planet ??, this is MACA. #adoptdontshop A post shared by  Zac Efron (@zacefron) on Apr 4, 2018 at 7:05pm PDT Beyond #BlackGirlMagic: The importance of seeing black women like Nomzamo Mbatha graduateAll over social media and on news sites, there's a swell of images celebrating black women being capped or having received their degrees. This is why it is so significant. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  