Chester Makana, News24 Correspondent (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Limpopo bishop has been sentenced to 12 years imprisonment for raping and impregnating his daughter by the Limpopo High Court sitting in Thohoyandou. The 65-year-old bishop of a local church in Tshilavulu village, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the daughter, pleaded guilty to the charge. When handing down judgment in the High Court sitting in Thohoyandou on Wednesday, Judge Khami Makhafola said that he had no option but to punish the man, as society and the bishop's church would expect the culprit to be punished for his sins. Makhafola added that the bishop needed to pay for his sins and be rehabilitated. The only place he could be rehabilitated was in a correctional facility. The State successfully argued that the bishop had abused his biological daughter for about four years. Read: Limpopo man sentenced to life in prison for stabbing, stoning grandmother to death It emerged during trial that the sexual abuse started in 2006, when the daughter was 12 years old, and came into limelight in 2010 when she fell pregnant. The National Prosecuting Authority's provincial spokesperson Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi had previously said that, during the four-year ordeal, the bishop used to take his daughter to a nearby bush under the pretext that there were dangers that were going to befall her, and then had told her that she needed "divine intervention". The bishop would then sexually penetrate her, before asking her to wash herself clean. Although he pleaded guilty, the bishop had told the court that he was healing his daughter. In aggravation of sentencing, State prosecutor Ratshilumela Makhera said the bishop's actions could not be associated with Christianity and described them as "a high level of moral bankruptcy". "What the man of cloth did was un-Christian, morally bankrupt and a shame to the church he heads, and he needs to go to prison," said Makhera.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  