Jenni Evans Saftu secretary general Zwelinzima Vavi leads Saftu in a protest march against poverty. (Photo: Lameez Omarjee, Fin24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) will protest
countrywide on Wednesday over the national minimum wage, parallel to an as-yet
unresolved bus strike. "Every member, worker for any union or federation can
join," said Saftu in its advertisements for the labour action at major
cities in South Africa. The federation's spokesperson Patrick Craven is expecting a
large turnout and dismissed rumours that it might become violent. The education department said schools will stay open. READ MORE: What you need to know about the planned national shutdown The following routes will be used, and traffic might be
congested as protesters take to the streets: - In Johannesburg, marchers will assemble at Newtown
Precinct Park before marching to the Department of Labour, the Gauteng
Department of Health and Premier David Makhura's office. - In Cape Town, marchers will assemble at Keizersgracht
before marching to the City of Cape Town and Parliament. - In Port Elizabeth, marchers will assemble at Vusi Dlamini
Square before marching to Centenary Hall. - In Bloemfontein, marchers will assemble at Batho Hall
before marching to the Department of Labour. - In Polokwane, marchers will assemble at SABC Park before
marching to the departments of labour and social development. - And, in Durban, marchers will assemble at Botha's Place
before marching to Durban City Hall, the departments of labour, economic
development and the premier's and mayor's offices. Fin24: Everything you need to know about Saftu strike Meanwhile, talks continued until late on Tuesday in an
effort to resolve the national bus strike. Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant is helping mediate between
five unions, and employers so there will be no bus services on Wednesday. Trains are not expected to be affected by the strike. READ MORE: Bus strike set to continue on Saftu national
protest day   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  