Zola Skweyiya has died. (Elizabeth Sejake, Gallo Images, Rapport, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Dirco confirms the arrest of SA businessman in Dubai after Gupta video, AfriForum pursues corruption and other complaints against NPA boss Shaun Abrahams and ANC veteran Zola Skweyiya dies at 75.Here are today’s top stories: KPMG top exec suspended as new scandal threatens to engulf the audit firmThe current head of KPMG's largest business unit has been suspended. He was also the lead audit partner on VBS Bank. Dirco confirms arrest of SA businessman in Dubai after Gupta video The Department of International Relations and Cooperation has received confirmation from the South African Consulate General in Dubai that South African businessman Justin van Pletzen has been detained. ANC veteran Zola Skweyiya dies at 75 The politician died in Kloof Hospital in Pretoria on Wednesday morning, confirmed Mpho Mosimane, who was the spokesperson for the group of 101 stalwarts and apartheid activists who had asked last year for Jacob Zuma to step down. Two 'Sun City' escapees shot dead in KZN Two of the men who escaped from Johannesburg Correctional Centre, known as "Sun City", earlier this week have been shot dead in KwaZulu-Natal, the Hawks confirmed. WATCH: Winnie's great-grandchildren deliver heartwarming tributes to 'Big Mommy' Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's grandchildren and great-grandchildren spoke about their love for their "Big Mommy" at the struggle stalwart's memorial service in Soweto.  Furious Zuma still pulling strings behind the scenes It seems that Jacob Zuma has not resigned himself to a quiet retirement in Nkandla, writes Melanie Verwoerd. AfriForum pursues corruption and other complaints against NPA boss Shaun Abrahams Allegations of a covertly-funded fraudulent travel claim has led lobby group AfriForum to approach police to have National Prosecuting Authority boss Shaun Abrahams criminally charged. Semenya smashes record, but controversy persists... Caster Semenya smashed Zola Budd's long-standing South African 1 500 metres record at the Commonwealth Games on Tuesday as her dominance on the track continued to be dogged by controversy off it. Ramaphosa must suspend SSA's Fraser after interference claims - DAThe DA says it is time for President Cyril Ramaphosa to "reclaim" the country's intelligence services after allegations that State Security Agency director-general Arthur Fraser interfered with the functions of the Inspector-General of Intelligence. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  