Tammy Petersen Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in Soweto after receiving the National Heritage Council's Ubuntu prize in 2011. (Felix Dlangamandla/Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An emotional Patricia de Lille was at St George's Cathedral to pay her last respects to Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Both she and Marlene le Roux placed flowers on a public shrine of memory for the struggle veteran.WATCH Winnie Madikizela-Mandela will be given a category 1 special official funeral, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Tuesday. This, his spokesperson Khusela Diko explained, entails elements of military ceremonial honours and is declared for persons of extraordinary credentials specifically designated by the president in line with the Presidency's state, official and provincial official funeral policy. The stalwart was a recipient of the Order of Luthuli in silver for her "excellent contribution to the fight for the liberation of the people of South Africa". "Mam' Winnie deserves the highest respect our nation can demonstrate in honour of a patriot and citizen who served our nation and humanity at large with distinction during our liberation struggle and throughout our democratic dispensation," Ramaphosa said in a statement. READ: Madikizela-Mandela to be buried in Fourways - family Madikizela-Mandela died on Monday at the age of 81 after a long illness. Diko said in line with the declaration, the South African flag would fly at half-mast at all flag stations countrywide and at South African diplomatic missions abroad until her funeral on April 14. "The president has further declared national days of mourning from today, April 3, until April 14," Diko confirmed. The official memorial service for Madikizela-Mandela will take place at the Regina Mundi Catholic Church in Soweto on April 11, and the special official funeral proceedings will be held at Orlando Stadium, Soweto, on April 14. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  