Tammy Petersen Magdaleen Titus. (Facebook, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A woman, who was allegedly privy to an Oudtshoorn councillor's plans to orchestrate a hit on her husband, was on Monday released on R15 000 bail in the local Magistrate's Court. Natasha Stuurman has been behind bars since January, following her arrest for her alleged involvement in the murder of Preston Titus. Titus was the husband of her co-accused, Magdaleen Titus, who is also a member of the ANC's provincial executive committee. The two women were arrested after Magdaleen's former driver, Sixabiso Klip, 23, was sentenced to 15 years for murder and the possession of a dangerous weapon in line with a plea bargain entered into with the State on January 19. Magdaleen was denied bail last month. In January, Justice Mooi – accused of carrying out the hit along with an accomplice, who is yet to be arrested – was also denied bail. Klip, in his plea and sentencing agreement, alleged that Mooi and a man called Vusumzi had travelled to Oudtshoorn to apparently carry out the R30 000 hit. ALSO READ: How ANC councillor allegedly masterminded her soldier husband's murder Stuurman had apparently known about the plans and alleged meetings arranging the hit had taken place at her house. Two attempts were allegedly called off before Preston Titus was killed on December 1. The staff sergeant's body was found in his Florida Avenue, Oudtshoorn house. He had stab wounds to his head and right arm. He was found dead after his daughter returned home, following an evening out with friends. She could not attract her father's attention when she wanted to be let in, even after phoning him. Her mother eventually opened the door and they found the 47-year-old's body in his bedroom. No evidence of forced entry could be found and only two tablet devices and a gold wrist watch were reported missing. Klip claimed Magdaleen Titus had told the men she would put her phone, a laptop, tablet and R3 500 in a bag, and instructed them to take it in an attempt to make the murder look like a robbery. The case was postponed to June 4 for further investigation. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  