'Sulking' Mugabe and wife Grace 'refuse to vacate state house' – reports Former Zimbabwe president Robert Mugabe still has the keys to an official residence more than four months after he was forced to retire, a spokesperson has claimed. George Charamba, who was Mugabe's spokesperson and is now the spokesperson for new president Emmerson Mnangagwa, told the privately-owned Standard newspaper on Sunday: "Someone is not telling the country that the former president still holds the keys for that house." Read more on this story here Mugabe's delay in meeting Mnangagwa 'is to his own detriment' Robert Mugabe's delay in meeting his successor Emmerson Mnangagwa to resolve their differences is to the former president's own detriment, a presidential spokesperson says. Mugabe is understood to have left Zimbabwe at the weekend for a medical check-up in Singapore, pushing back any prospect of a meeting to ease tensions between the two former allies. "He (Mugabe) is the one with issues to raise with his successor, which means the delayed contact is to his detriment," Mnangagwa's spokesperson George Charamba told the Daily News. For more on this story click here Nigeria's Buhari to run for re-election: official Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari declared on Monday he would seek re-election next year, in a move that put an end to months of speculation. "President @Buhari has just announced his intention to seek the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and contest for a second term of Office in the 2019 elections," the presidency said on Twitter. Buhari posted the remark in the nation's capital of Abuja following a meeting with the national executive of his ruling APC party. Read more on this story here New Botswana leader Masisi to hold talks with Mnangagwa in Zim Botswana's new president Mokgweetsi Masisi is expected in Zimbabwe on Monday on a working visit, reports say. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Masisi was expected to hold talks with his Zimbabwean counterpart President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Masisi took over from former president Ian Khama on April 1. For more on this story click here Uganda's 'life presidency' law faces legal challenge Kampala - A court in Uganda is hearing a case that seeks to overturn a law that removed an age limit to the long-time president's rule. Opposition politicians and the local bar association are challenging the law, passed in December, that allows President Yoweri Museveni to potentially hold power for nearly five decades. The law removed a measure in the constitution that prevented anyone older than 75 from being president. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  