Mxolisi Mngadi Magistrate's court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – Charges of murder, kidnapping and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm have been withdrawn against a man who allegedly helped two women poison and murder two 10-year-old boys in Clairwood, south of Durban, in November 2017. However, Ali Yusaf, 46, would now be charged under the Immigration Act, ruled magistrate Mohammed Motala at the Durban Magistrate's Court on Friday. After withdrawing all the charges against Yusaf, Motala ordered that he be taken to a police station where he would be immediately charged. The two women Amahle Maliwa, 28, and Liziwe Ngwayishe, 33, were both remanded in custody until their bail application on February 14. They are charged with the murders of Njabulo Mankayi - whose decomposed body was found on November 13, in the Grunter Gully Canal in Bayhead, south of Durban - and his friend Luyanda Msomi who was found in a bush in Montclair, Durban, on November 11. READ: Second missing Durban boy found dead Mankayi and Msomi – both Grade 3 pupils at Clairwood Boys Primary School – were last seen on November 9, while boarding a bus home from school, before they were found dead. 'She has attitude' Mankayi's father Thandaza Mankayi told News24 in November that he was in a romantic relationship with Maliwa. He said he suspected that the boys were killed because he had ended his relationship with Maliwa on October 14. READ: Father of slain Durban 10-year-old speaks out Maliwa, who wore a red Uzzi T-shirt, white Bermuda short and red flip-flops, had heavy make up on her face and had a new haircut - blonde braids. She chewed gum while the matter proceeded. A lady court orderly reprimanded Maliwa to remove the chewing gum from her mouth, which she did. "She has attitude," said the court orderly. During her last court appearance, Maliwa had abandoned her bail application but on Friday instructed her Legal Aid SA lawyer that she now wanted to apply for bail. Motala postponed the matter to February 14 for the two women to formally apply for bail. He also said further investigations still needed to be done in the matter. The State was still waiting for the toxicology and post-mortem reports, the court heard. The fathers of the two slain boys told News24 they were not happy that all charges have been withdrawn against Yusaf. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  