Alex Mitchley  Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga. (Karabo Ngoepe, News24). 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria - Tshwane’s new police chief, Johanna Nkomo, is expected to start in February this year after the Gauteng provincial government gave the go-ahead for her appointment, Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga announced on Tuesday. "I am pleased to announce that the City of Tshwane has received concurrence from the Gauteng provincial government for the appointment of the chief of the Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD)," Msimanga said in a statement.  This follows Nkomo’s nomination and confirmation in the Tshwane Council in October 2017. "Council did so observing the letter of the law and due process that governs the nomination and confirmation of a candidate for police chief,” said Msimanga.  "Council’s appointment went to the Gauteng MEC for Local Government for concurrence and we have now received that, and Ms Nkomo is scheduled to assume her duties as Tshwane top cop on 12 February 2018." Nkomo's qualifications includes a National Diploma in Police Administration from Technikon SA.  "She is clearly someone who has a multiplicity of skills and has worked across various fields within the country’s police services, as can be seen in her employment history." Her other roles include: • Constable: Communication Service Centre in Soshanguve;• Constable: Investigation Office (Soshanguve);• Sergeant: Section Commander Enquiry Unit in Soshanguve;• Second in Charge:  Phuthanang Satellite police station;• Group leader and investigating officer: Serious and violent crime unit head office;• Superintendent: Strategic and Project Management Service head office;• Senior Legal Administration Officer: Legal Component: Crime operations, head office;  • Director: Legal Service Section Head Property and Asset Management, head office;• Deputy Provincial Commissioner: Detective and Intelligence: Mpumalanga;• Station Commissioner: Witbank;• Station Commissioner: Sunnyside;• Cluster Commander: Sunnyside;• Head: Firearms, liquor and second hand good control;• Head: Auxiliary services and loss management;• Acting Police Commissioner of the United Mission in South Sudan;• Deputy Police Commissioner of the United Mission in South Sudan; and• Divisional Commissioner: Detective Services (current). Msimanga said the completion of the appointment process was an indication that strides were being made to further stabilise Tshwane’s leadership. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  