Grace Mugabe (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – Students have reportedly given the vice chancellor of the University of
Zimbabwe (UZ), Levi Nyagura, 48 hours to step down from the institution over
former first lady Grace Mugabe's alleged "fake" degree. In a letter delivered to UZ on Wednesday, the Zimbabwe National
students' Union (Zinasu), threatened "intensified protests" to force Nyagura to
step down if their call was not heeded. "It
is our considered view that your continued stay at the helm of the institution
further degrades its already tainted image in the academic field. This is
because you presided over the awarding of a bogus doctorate to Grace Mugabe," read
part of the letter. This came a few weeks after academics
at the UZ petitioned the country's anti-corruption commission to investigate
the "suspicious" way in which Grace was awarded a PhD in orphanages four
years ago. The
academics from the university's sociology department said they were "shocked" when Grace emerged among the doctoral candidates in 2014. Grace was capped by her husband "This
was a shock to many members of the department as most members never (saw) or
heard about the proposal, progress reports, thesis examiners and outcome of
such a study by the candidate," reads part of the petition, quoted by the
private Zimbabwe Independent. Grace was capped by her husband, then president Robert Mugabe, in August 2014 when he was still chancellor
of the university. She appeared in the red academic gown and black cap for the
doctorate of philosophy degree beside the then vice president, Joice Mujuru,
who also received a doctorate. Mujuru's
doctoral thesis has subsequently been released into the public domain, but
Grace's thesis has never been made available. At
the time Grace was reported to have enrolled for the
doctorate just three months before it was awarded. Prominent
graduates of the university, which has a distinguished track record, were
outraged. The late Zimbabwean author, Chenjerai Hove at the time wrote to the
university’s vice chancellor, Levi Nyagura saying the university’s decision to
give a doctorate to Grace had reduced its degrees to "a laughing stock". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  