KOUGA community members are desperately praying for rain. A second mass prayer meeting will take place at the Kouga Dam Resort from 10:00 to 13:00 on Sunday. Religious leaders from the Gamtoos Valley area are planning to start their pilgrimage to the Kouga Dam on Friday for daily prayers, until the mass gathering of Sunday. This follows a mass prayer meeting that was held at the Dolphin Beach Amphitheatre last Sunday afternoon. The meetings are organised and coordina-ted by community leaders, community organisations and business fraternities, while the sermons and prayers are led by local ministers. All residents are welcome to attend. The water levels at the dams supplying Kouga are critically low and the possibility of Day Zero arriving sooner than initially anticipa-ted, is fast becoming a reality. Day Zero is a period where the municipality would no longer be able to provide water through the taps and residents would have to go to central points to collect water in rationed quantities. Kouga Executive Mayor Elza van Lingen says it was great to see the community united in these very difficult times, with everyone seeking to play a role to secure water. “While we are busy, as a municipality, searching for more water sources, it is encouraging to see our communities holding hands and doing their bit for us to have more water. “T
 he water scarcity is not only affecting domestic use, but businesses as well, which may have a devastating impact in terms of jobs.” Van Lingen adds that while the municipality is busy searching for more water sources and prayers went up for rains to fall, it is important that residents save every drop of water they can. As part of its efforts, the municipality has been drilling boreholes and conducting geophysics tests for more drilling. A municipal delegation recently travelled to Israel to learn from world specialists about the possibility of having desalination plants as part of long term plans. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  