Nation Nyoka (File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Police have appealed to community members to help them solve the deaths of three people whose bodies were found in different areas around the East Rand area of Ivory Park earlier this week. According to police's Captain Bernard Matimulane, the bodies of two victims – a male and a female – were found stabbed in Themba Khoza informal settlement and Clayeville respectively, while another victim's body was found floating in a river in nearby Tswelopele. The woman is believed to have been in her 20s, her hair was dyed blonde and she was wearing a green T-shirt and blue shorts, said Matimulane. Mathimule said in a statement that an inquest had been opened regarding the victim found in the river, while murder cases had been opened for the other two victims. Brigadier David Ngcobo of the Ivory Park police appealed to anyone with information or with a missing relative to contact them on 011 990 9600. "We believe that any piece of information we may gather regarding these unknown victims may assist us in finding out who they are, who they were with and where and, maybe, assist us in establishing how they died," read a statement. Community warned After two separate incidents, police have warned Ivory Park community members to refrain from parking in isolated areas which makes them easy prey for criminals. Police said on Friday that a man from Soweto was visiting his girlfriend in Ivory Park, parked in an isolated area when three armed suspects bundled them into the car and took their belongings. The woman managed to flee while the suspects attempted to get the man's banking information. He sustained injuries as he escaped from the vehicle while it was moving.  In the second incident, in Clayeville on Thursday night, two friends were forced into a car by three armed men, stripped of their valuables and dumped in Midrand, while the suspects made off. "As much as we would love to cover every nook and cranny of our area, the reality is that we can't. So we call on anyone who parks their vehicle outside and after dark to desist as they are putting their lives in danger," said Ngcobo. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  