Zim churches 'rubbish' Mugabe nephew's 'ill-treatment' claims Harare – The Zimbabwe Amalgamated Churches Council (ZACC) has reportedly rubbished claims by former president Robert Mugabe's nephew that the new government of President Emmerson Mnagagwa was "ill-treating" his uncle.  Mugabe's nephew, Patrick Zhuwao recently claimed during an interview with Voice of America that his uncle was being "ill-treated" by Mnangagwa's government. "They are ill-treating the old man. They went to prophets and traditional healers and were told the same that they are ill-treating the old man but they failed to change, they continue to ill-treat the old man," Zhuwawo was quoted as saying. But according to the state-owned Heraldnewspaper, ZACC's patron Jimmy Muduvuri dismissed Zhuwao's claims, saying that Mnangagwa was a caring president. For more on this story click here  Zim massacres: 'A spiritual issue that needs to be handled by chiefs', says ex-minister Harare – Zimbabwe's former war veterans minister Tshinga Dube has reportedly said that "there is little" that President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government can do to address the issue pertaining to the Gukurahundi massacres that took place in the Matabeleland region in the 1980s. At least 20 000 civilians were reportedly killed by an army unit unleashed on Matabeleland and Midlands provinces by then prime minister Robert Mugabe, as his government hunted down perceived PF-Zapu armed dissidents. Mnangagwa was accused of being part of the massacres as he was the state security minister at the time.  For more on this story click here  Zim ministry seeks Mnangagwa's consent to free 2 000 inmates – report Harare – Zimbabwean correctional services authorities are reportedly seeking President Emmerson Mnangagwa's consent to pardon at least 2 000 inmates in-order to ease congestion in the country's overloaded prisons.  According to the state-owned Chronicle newspaper, Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs minister, Ziyambi Ziyambi said that the release of the prisoners was a priority of his ministry’s 100 day plan. Ziyambi said that his ministry was also working on clearing the 374 mentally ill prisoners to reduce the congestion. For more on this story click here  Zanu-PF youths 'worried' Mugabe's nephew 'still has a say in party structures' Harare – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF youth league has reportedly claimed that former president Robert Mugabe’s nephew Patrick Zhuwao is "plotting sabotage voting" against the party in the forthcoming elections. Zimbabwe was set to go to the polls in September. According to NewsDay, the youth league's national political commissar Godfrey Tsenengamu said that the party was aware of Zhuwao's shenanigans. "We are aware that the remnants of the G40 cabal being led by Zhuwao are still in Mashonaland east… For more on this story click here  200 arrested, dozens hurt in fresh Tunisia unrest Tunis - More than 200 people were arrested and dozens hurt during clashes in several parts of Tunisia, the interior ministry said Wednesday, after a second night of unrest driven by anger over austerity measures. Ministry spokesperson Khalifa Chibani told local radio that 49 police officers were wounded during clashes across the country and that 206 "troublemakers" were arrested. Properties were damaged, he said, including a branch of the Carrefour supermarket chain in the suburbs of Tunis that was looted. Read more on this story here  At least 100 migrants believed missing at sea, Libyan navy says Tripoli - Libya's navy says around 100 migrants are believed missing at sea and that at least 279 others have been rescued off the Libyan coast. Wednesday's statement says the migrants, mostly Africans, had embarked on the perilous trip across the Mediterranean in several vessels. Those missing were all from one single rubber boat that got ruptured while at sea. The navy says the survivors, who were found on Tuesday, were taken a naval base in the capital, Tripoli. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  