Iavan Pijoos Aron Mutavhatsindi, 42, who was shot and killed by a security guard near Matshelapad over the weekend. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Krugersdorp - Chaos erupted in the Krugersdorp Magistrate's Court on Monday where security guard Petrus William Johannes Durant was applying for bail for the killing of a Tarlton farm worker. Members of the public - some clad in ANC, EFF and PAC T-shirts - disrupted court proceedings. One person held up a placard, saying "No bail or else", as the magistrate was about to hand down judgment. Tarlton tractor driver Aron Mutavhatsindi was shot and killed in an open field near the informal settlement of Matshelapad, outside Krugersdorp, west of Johannesburg, on January 6. WATCH: 'Those white men didn't have to shoot him' - community member where farm worker was murdered A man in court was overheard saying: "If that was a white man, he wouldn’t have killed him." Police acted swiftly to remove the protesters from the courtroom. They were then barred from entering the court. A woman was heard shouting at police: "You must kill us all. You f****n bastards." Watch here: She was also removed from the courtroom. The magistrate was about to hand down judgment on bail, but court was adjourned for a few minutes. Forty-two-year-old Mutavhatsindi worked at the Bartlet Poultry Farm. READ: Community shattered over death of farm worker The farm's general manager, Peter Bartlet, said last Tuesday that the company's staff and owners were deeply saddened by the incident and vowed to work with the police to assist them with their investigation. News24 reported last week that Mutavhatsindi's nephew, Ramashia Ebraimy, who witnessed his uncle's killing, saw two vans following his uncle on the tractor. A man got out of one of the vans and allegedly shot his uncle, who died. Police initially said he had been shot by a farm owner, but it later emerged that the suspect was a security guard. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  