Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Phoenix - The lanky, bespectacled man walked into a bank in a strip mall on Tucson's northern edge with a gun, demanded that a teller hand over an undisclosed amount of cash and made his escape on foot. Experts say the heist on Friday at the Pyramid Federal Credit Union branch represents a rarity in the world of bank robbery: The suspect, who was arrested the next day, is 80 years old. And as it turns out, suspect Robert Francis Krebs has a decades-old criminal record for stealing from banks, including a 1981 robbery in Florida in which a branch manager and a teller were handcuffed and left in a vault. Krebs served more than 30 years in prison for the bank robbery near Orlando and has a 1966 conviction in Chicago for embezzling $72 000 from a bank where he worked as a teller. He also did time for theft and armed robbery convictions from Arizona dating back to 1980. He was released from prison in Florida in 2016 and has since been found to have violated his probation because he didn't disclose his whereabouts to authorities, according to the Florida Department of Corrections. Motive Krebs, who is jailed on a $50 000 bond, was booked on suspicion of armed robbery in the Tucson, Arizona, robbery. It's unclear whether Krebs has yet been assigned an attorney. Tucson police spokesperson Officer Chris Hawkins said investigators are trying to determine the motive behind Friday's robbery. William J Rehder, a retired FBI bank robbery expert who isn't involved in Krebs' case, said it's unusual for elderly people to carry out robberies. Typically, bank robbers are in their 20s. Rehder said Krebs' motivations are likely two-fold: He misses the thrill of pulling off a bank job and needs money, given that he's an octogenarian with little potential to earn money after spending decades in prison. "This guy sounds more like he is hooked on the action," Rehder said. Krebs isn't the oldest bank robbery suspect. Rehder pointed out the case of JL Hunter "Red" Rountree, who had been dubbed America's oldest bank robber. Rountree was convicted of committing robberies at banks during the late 1990s and early 2000s in Mississippi, Florida and Texas. He committed two robberies in his mid-80s and was 91 at the time of his last heist. He died in federal prison a few months before his 93rd birthday. In the Tucson robbery, Krebs was arrested after a hotel employee, who had refused to give him a room because he didn't have a credit card, later recognised him from surveillance photos that were posted on social media. Officers then went to other nearby hotels and eventually located him. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  