'Ailing' Tsvangirai rejects reports he has 'three months to live' Harare – Zimbabwe's Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party leader Morgan Tsvangirai has rejected reports that he is battling for his life in South Africa where he is receiving medical attention. Reports last week said that Tsvangirai's situation had gone dire, with NewsDay saying that his doctors had indicated he had "three months to live". Tsvangirai, a former prime minister, announced in 2016 that he had been diagnosed with colon cancer and had begun chemotherapy. For more on this story click here LATEST: Bennett, wife 'to be cremated in US before remains are flown back to Zim' - report Cape Town – Zimbabwean opposition leader Roy Bennett and his wife Heather, who were killed in a helicopter crash two weeks ago in the United States are reportedly set to be cremated before their remains are flown back to Zimbabwe. Bennett and Heather were among five people who were killed in a helicopter that went down in a mountainous rural area of New Mexico. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the late politician's sister, Cynthia Bennett, said the couple's daughter was currently in the US to arrange for her parents' cremation and repatriation. Read more on this story here Africa's leaders choose diplomacy to Trump's toilet remarks Addid Ababa - The 55-nation African Union appears to have decided to react diplomatically and strategically to President Donald Trump's alleged vulgar remarks about the continent. Rather than issuing an angry condemnation of Trump's reported comments in which he likened Africa to a filthy toilet, the African Union may decide to follow the advice of its new chairperson, Rwandan President Paul Kagame, to deal with the US president as the leader of a country elected by his people. Kagame made the remarks on Monday as the annual summit, which was attended by more than 40 African leaders, drew to a close. Kagame spoke at the African Union after meeting Trump last Friday in Davos, Switzerland at the World Economic Forum. For more on this story click here EXCLUSIVE: Investigative journalist paints 'a depressing picture' of working in Sudan Cape Town -  A Sudanese journalist, who was arrested and released during the recent high bread price protests has painted a "depressing picture" of the "tough conditions" that journalists are working under in that east African country. In an interview with News24, investigative journalist Shawgi Abdel Azim Osman Yassin, said he was put in jail on charges of inciting the protests. Yassin, who works for a satellite business news channel, Sudania24, said that he was arrested on January 18 with several other journalists, among them, international correspondents working for Reuters news agency and the Agency France-Presse (AFP). Read more on this story here Kenya opposition supporters gather for Odinga 'swearing-in' Nairobi - Supporters of Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga gathered in Nairobi Tuesday ahead of a ceremony to swear him in as an alternative president, three months after he claims an election was stolen from him. The planned "inauguration" has raised fears of violence as police had vowed not to allow the event to go ahead. However officers kept their distance as hundreds gathered at the Uhuru park venue. Odinga, 72, a veteran opposition leader who claims he has had three elections stolen from him, has refused to accept President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election, which came after a deeply divisive 2017 polls season in which rights activists say at least 92 people were killed. Read more on this story here Kenya 'switches off' TV and radio stations over coverage of Odinga's 'swearing-in' ceremony - reports Nairobi – Television and radio stations in most of parts of Kenya have reportedly been switched off over their plan to cover opposition leader Raila Odinga's "swearing-in" ceremony. "The Communications Authority of Kenya has switched off Citizen Television and Radio in most parts of the country over the coverage of the NASA 'swearing-in' plan," Kenya's Citizen said on its website on Tuesday. Kenya's opposition said on Monday that it would "swear in" Odinga as alternative president on Tuesday despite the attorney general's warning that such a protest act challenging the official president will amount to treason. For more on this story click here Kenyan opposition leader Odinga sworn in as 'president' Nairobi - Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga had himself sworn in as an alternative president Tuesday in front of thousands of supporters, three months after claiming an election was stolen from him. "I Raila Amolo Odinga, in full realisation of the high calling, assume the office of the People's President of the Republic of Kenya," he said in the brief and chaotic ceremony surrounded by a sea of people in Nairobi. Read more on this story here       24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  