Zimbabwe uni posts Grace Mugabe's suspect PhD thesis Harare - Zimbabwe's leading university has published the thesis submitted by former first lady Grace Mugabe, who was controversially awarded a doctorate which is now the subject of a fraud investigation. Grace, whose apparent desire to succeed her 93-year-old husband prompted last year's army takeover that eventually saw Robert Mugaberesign, was awarded a PhD by the University of Zimbabwe in 2014 after just months of study. To read the thesis click here. Doctorates typically require several years of full-time research and writing. Read more on this story here Top Harare school in bid to reclaim prime land 'grabbed' by Grace Mugabe - report Harare - A top private school in Zimbabwe is trying to reclaim prime land allegedly seized from it by former first lady, Grace Mugabe. The 23-hectare plot of land is in the heart of Harare’s plush northern Borrowdale suburb, just a few kilometres from the former first family’s private mansion. Donated church land According to the private NewsDay, Grace Mugabe took over the land some years ago with the help of former local government minister, Ignatius Chombo, without the knowledge of the school. Read more on this story here WATCH: Mnangagwa says he wants Mugabe to live 'in peace, undisturbed' Davos – Zimbabwe's new leader Emmerson Mnangagwa has said that his predecessor, former president Robert Mugabe, will be left to live "in peace" with a "very lucrative" package. Mnangagwa said this while answering a question relating to the immunity status of former first lady Grace Mugabe during an interview in Davos, Switzerland where he was attending the World Economic Forum. "…No. We have not given anybody any immunity. What I promised to my former president and the founding father of our nation, President Mugabe, is that first we give him a package — a very lucrative package," Mnangagwa said. Read more on this story here Zim's new leader gives ministers to end of February to declare assets - reports Harare – President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government has issued a directive to all senior state employees, including government ministers, to declare their assets before the end of February, reports say. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, chief secretary to the president and cabinet, Misheck Sibanda, said in a statement that the directive was aimed at building a transparent, clean and working government. But a New Zimbabwe.com report said that opposition parties and civil society movements had moved to slam the directive, saying that it meant nothing as the government "has had similar initiatives but have not been respected". For more on this story click here Egypt rights lawyer latest presidential hopeful to quit race Cairo - Egyptian presidential hopeful and rights lawyer Khaled Ali on Wednesday quit the race, becoming the latest would-be candidate who either bowed out or was forced to abandon a challenge to President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi in the March election. Ali was the last serious potential challenger to al-Sisi after a string of other hopefuls quit the race. His decision came just hours after al-Sisi submitted his nomination documents, a day after another potentially serious challenger - a retired general and former chief of staff - was arrested by the military on a slate of charges, including forgery and inciting against the military. Read more on this story here Buhari re-election talks 'a distraction': Nigerian govt Abuja - Nigeria's government on Wednesday hit back at claims that President Muhammadu Buhari's tenure had been a failure but refused to say if he would seek re-election. Former president Olusegun Obasanjo on Tuesday called for Buhari to step down as he had a poor grasp of economics, foreign affairs and Nigeria's complex internal politics. The 75-year-old Buhari "needed a deserved rest", his 80-year-old former military colleague suggested, and asking Nigerians to return him for four more years was "unrealistic". Read more on this story here Africa can't keep quiet about 'shocking' Trump remark Addis Ababa - The chairperson of the African Union Commission said on Thursday that the continent's leaders cannot stay silent after US President Donald Trump's alleged vulgar remarks about African countries and Haiti. Moussa Faki Mahmat told African foreign ministers gathering in the Ethiopian capital that many are still digesting Trump's comment that the continent's countries are like a filthy toilet. "The continent is deeply shocked by the message of hatred and the desire to marginalise Africa," Mahmat said, before the African Union summit on Sunday. He said African leaders may also respond to other statements and actions by Trump. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  