Mahlohonolo Magadla PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Controversy seems to be the one thing minister social development Bathabile Dlamini can’t seem to shake off. The minister and her department have come under fire after reports surfaced of the department paying R500 000 to the SABC for an interview on Real Talk with Anele. According to the Daily Maverick, the SABC received the payment from the department of social development in December last year. The payment was for the minister to appear on the SABC3 show hosted by Anele Mdoda. The two-hour long show was reportedly rebroadcast during the ANC’s elective conference to boost Dlamini’s brand. The Democratic Alliance has weighed in on the matter, calling for the minister to “pay back the money”.  Dept of Social Development allegedly paid the SABC a whopping R500 000 to do a fluff interview with Minister Dlamini in an attempt to improve the Minister’s already tarnished reputation.If true, the Minister must pay back the money!https://t.co/N9dRaUJHD4 Instead of trying to improve her tarnished image, the Minister should be focussing on ensuring a smooth transition when the PostBank finally takes over the electronic payment of social grants. The issues are 3fold:1. Is R500K a reasonable amount to pay?2. Was the communication intended to relay info about gov services? Or merely to promote Dlamini’s image in a fluff piece?3. Did the SABC, the public broadcaster, inform the public that the content was sponsored? The executive mayor of Johannesburg, Herman Mashaba revealed that he also went on the same show but was not charged for the interview. I was invited & participated on this show a day before the Minister's interview. How come I was never asked to pay a cent for my interview? https://t.co/8KbPfcuiG9 It isn’t the first time Dlamini finds herself in hot water. The minister, who is also a leader of the ANC Women’s League, has been involved in these controversies too: THE TRAVELGATE SCANDAL In 2006 the directorate of special operations implicated Dlamini and 13 other ANC MPs in what South African media called the "Travelgate" scandal – a scandal involving the abuse of parliamentary travel vouchers. Her charge sheet stated that she knew the travel vouchers could be used only for air travel but nevertheless used them to cover the costs of hotel accommodation, car rentals and other benefits. She was convicted of fraud after pleading guilty to a total of R245 000 in fraudulent travel claims.  THE SOCIAL GRANT CRISIS As minister of social development, Dlamini failed to realise the government's plan to take over payment of South Africa's social grants by 31 March 2017, when the existing arrangement with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) to distribute grants had been due to expire. This created a concern that grant recipients wouldn’t receive grant payments from 1 April 2017. Dlamini was criticised for her lack of action and her inability to ensure either a new service contract or the insourcing of the service was in place. She was also criticised for her handling of the media during the saga. On 6 March last year, the contract with CPS was renewed for another two years but the Constitutional Court held Dlamini primarily responsible for the crisis, with Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng saying there was no explanation for the incompetence displayed by her and Sassa.  ABSENTEEISM The minister was criticised for not appearing before parliament or in department of social development portfolio committee meetings during the grant crisis.  PRIVATE SECURITY In May last year, Dlamini appeared before a parliamentary Scopa meeting where, among other issues, she was questioned about R1 million spent on private VIP security for her children, paid for by Sassa. Responding to questions about this very irregular arrangement, Dlamini said,"Some people understand government more than others”, and that she had to resort to private security due to the fact "government processes take a long period”. She further claimed that, despite the VIP protection she received through SAPS, her home was broken into thrice.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  