Arbitration proceedings surrounding the circumstances relating to the deaths of more than 100 psychiatric patients in Gauteng continues following the recent resignations of two senior health officials linked to the Life Esidimeni tragedy. Jump to
                    bottom Moseneke says Manamela came to the hearings and told the panel that Jacobus signed off the licenses and knew about audits, something Jacobus denies. Moseneke questions why Jacobus comes here and says Manamela signed off on the licenses. She says it wasn't clear to her what was going on, as it was chaotic. She said she informed Manamela at a meeting in the provincial office that she was not comfortable with the issuing of the licenses. Suspended Gauteng director of mental health resigns Suspended Gauteng director of mental health Dr Makgabo Manamela has resigned. Deputy Director General for provincial communication services Thabo Masebe confirmed that Manamela’s resignation was received on Wednesday afternoon. She resigned with immediate effect. "The resignation simply means she is no longer an employee of [the] provincial government, therefore we will not proceed with a disciplinary hearing against her," he said. Call to criminally charge Selebano, despite his resignation The DA has said the resignation of Dr Barney Selebano, the suspended head of the Gauteng health department, following the Life Esidimeni tragedy was not sufficient. The party has called for Selebano to be criminally charged as well. Selebano was one of a number of health officials identified as being responsible for the transfer of mentally ill patients from Life Esidimeni facilities to a number of unlicensed NGOs. The move resulted in at least 143 deaths. Selebano, who testified at the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearings in December last year and said he took "accountability", first launched an unsuccessful court bid to challenge a subpoena issued for him to appear before the hearings. Suspended Gauteng health department head resigns The suspended head of the Gauteng department of health, Dr Barney Selebano, has resigned. Gauteng health spokesperson Lesemang Matuka confirmed to News24 on Tuesday that Selebano submitted his resignation letter. "Dr T.E. (Barney) Selebano resigned with immediate effect yesterday, 15th January 2018," Matuka said. A senior Gauteng government official told News24 that since all head of department appointments are done by the premier, Gauteng Premier David Makhura is still considering Selebano's letter of resignation. Jump to
                top