(AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     In case you missed it, here are the highlights from Sunday's
City Press.  ANC NEC in fresh bid to oust Zuma President Jacob Zuma's state capture inquiry concession has
offered only a brief reprieve from his imminent removal, as a fresh onslaught
is expected when the ANC national executive committee (NEC) meets this week. Zuma is coming under increasing pressure. He was booed five
times at the ANC's 106th anniversary celebrations in East London on Saturday.  Discussion about Zuma's continued stay at the Union
Buildings is set to return to the agenda at the NEC's lekgotla, following a
late-night caucus on Tuesday, which resolved not to push ahead with his removal
before the ANC's anniversary celebrations. Read the full story here Spurned wife spills the beans on Transnet web of corruption A spurned wife has made damning claims about an alleged web
of corruption at one of South Africa’s largest parastatals, detailing luxurious
holidays to New York, Dubai, France and the Bahamas – paid for with wads of
cash her husband allegedly received in kickbacks from lawyers and suppliers. The allegations were made in a 17-page affidavit accompanied
by 157 pages of annexures, which include hotel receipts, emails, photographs
and bank statements she religiously kept. It was deposed with a prosecutor at the National Prosecuting
Authority in Pretoria, and is also being investigated by the Hawks. It states that she escaped an attempt on her life after she
threatened to expose her husband. Read more here The worst school in SA Parents of children at Isivivane Senior Secondary School is
in the Chris Hani West education district, near Queenstown, where all the
matrics failed their final exams last year – are livid that the department of
basic education is contemplating closing it down. All 17 pupils who wrote matric failed. Read more here Analysis: Welcome to the real world, DA The DA has been pretending that it is immune to the vicious
contestations that take place in other parties, particularly in the ANC. Its transitions and electoral contests were supposedly done
in an orderly but dignified manner, outsiders were led to believe. But two recent contests have blown that myth wide open,
writes Mondli Makhanya. Read his column here Steinhoff meltdown keeps going A potential shareholder class action suit has allegedly
already recruited “a considerable number of investors by any measure”,
including South Africans. European Investors and Dutch Investors’ Association (VEB)
are groups that pursue class actions against companies on behalf of allegedly
wronged shareholders in return for 9% of whatever they win. They have already signed up South African shareholders in addition
to European ones. Read more here Chicco Twala: Brenda Fassie is mine Sello “Chicco” Twala is putting his foot down, vowing that a
planned biopic about Brenda Fassie will not go ahead without his blessing. The songwriter and producer claims he has all the rights to
her music, which he produced and wrote, and is taking legal action to stop the
release of any film made about her life. “Without the music I wrote and produced for Brenda, there
will be no movie. This movie is not going to happen.” Read more here    To see more, visit the City Press site.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  