James de Villiers  Agnes Gosnell, from Crawford College La Lucia  in Durban, who recieved 11 distinctions in the 2017 IEB exams. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – A Durban matriculant who achieved 11 distinctions in 2017’s IEB examinations says she dreams of being an astronaut.  "It might just be a phase, but I have learnt about and read about the requirements for the European space station the past few days and thought it would be cool to be an astronaut," Agnes Gosnell, 18, told News24. "To drift between the stars and explore space would be amazing." Gosnell, of Crawford College La Lucia in Durban, with a 100 percent Bachelor degree pass rate, said she didn’t believe she did particularly well.  "I knew I passed and would get university acceptance, but that was about it." Gosnell said her key to success was to not change her routine for matric, but to carry on as normal.  "Don’t try too hard to the point where you stop living," she emphasised.  TO SEE YOUR IEB RESULTS CLICK HERE Gosnell, whose mother originally comes from Germany, plans to head to Germany this year, where she is set to study Mathematics and stay with family.  "Education in Germany is free, so I am grabbing the opportunity to study there," Gosnell explained.  "That’s why I think South Africa’s decision to move to free education is a step in the right direction, but we’ll see how it gets implemented." While she says she is going to "really miss school," she is excited about exploring the world.  "I want to live as an expat all over the world: explore, travel and experience everything." However, she has promised to return to South Africa. "I am sure I will return, I love this place," Gosnell said. "There’s no place more beautiful; no place which excites as much as South Africa." Register with News24 to get your results as they become available, and if you're a 2017 matric you could also stand a chance to win R10 000 in cash. Simply tick the competition entry box on the sign-up page. To register, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  