Zim polls: President Mnangagwa 'faces resistance by his own Zanu-PF MPs', says report Harare – Zimbabwe's new president Emmerson Mnangagwa is reportedly facing an internal revolt "after it emerged his calls for polls to go ahead as early as August could be resisted by his own Zanu-PF MPs". According to The Standard, Zanu-PF legislatures wanted the forthcoming elections postponed by at least three years as the party was "locked in chaos" after a vicious succession battle within the party. Read more on this story here Ugandan president backs 'frank' Trump after 'shithole' remark Kampala - Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni on Tuesday hailed Donald Trump for speaking "frankly" to Africans, after the US president unleashed a storm by reportedly describing African nations as "shithole countries." "I love Trump because he speaks to Africans frankly. I don't know if he was misquoted or whatever. He talks about Africans' weaknesses frankly," Museveni said in the capital Kampala to members of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA). Trump reportedly used the language at a private White House meeting on January 12, which led to condemnation in the US and around the world. Read more on this story here Zim family leaves Bangkok after living at airport for 3 months - reports Bangkok – A Zimbabwean family, who had been living at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi airport for the past three months, has finally left Thailand, reports said on Tuesday. The family of eight - four children under the age of 11 and four adults – got stranded at Bangkok's main airport late last year, an ordeal over the holiday season that drew widespread sympathy among Thais. Reports in December indicated that the family had tried to leave Thailand for Spain in October but they lacked visas for onward travel. They also couldn't re-enter Thailand after overstaying, thus, they were trapped in limbo in the airside area of the airport. For more on this story click here 'We'll be waiting for you at Davos,' Mugabe's nephew warns Mnangagwa Harare - Robert Mugabe's nephew says he plans to travel to Davos, Switzerland to thwart efforts by President Emmerson Mnangagwa to lure investors to Zimbabwe. In a blog post published on New Zimbabwe website, Patrick Zhuwao described Mnangagwa as an “economic predator” who he claimed wanted to “hoodwink” participants at the World Economic Forum meeting in the Swiss resort town. “Only EDiots will become prey to this economic predator,” wrote Zhuwao, playing on Mnangagwa’s intials, ED. Read more on this story here Liberia's Weah makes first cabinet appointments Monrovia - New Liberian President George Weah has appointed the first members of his cabinet, all of them men, largely naming party allies but picking a foreign minister close to former president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. Ex-international footballer Weah was sworn in on Monday at a stadium surrounded by ecstatic supporters, and filled some key ministerial posts later the same day. In his inaugural speech, Weah vowed to crack down on entrenched corruption and encourage the private sector. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  