Mahlohonolo Magadla PHOTO: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The SABC recently announced that Chris Maroleng is their new
chief operations officer (COO). The former COO, Hlaudi Motsoeneng, was fired last
year for bringing the public broadcaster into disrepute and causing irreparable
damage to the state enterprise. Here are five things you need to know about the new SABC
boss. 1.       His nickname is “Don’t touch me on my
studio” According to EWN,
Chris earned this nickname from the media after an incident during an e.tv
interview in 2010. At the time, Chris was the anchor of the show and had been
interviewing André Visagie, former secretary general of the Afrikaner
Weerstandsbeweging (AWB), and political analyst Lebohang Pheko. The two
were discussing race relations in South Africa. Lebohang confronted André about
the alleged abuse of farm workers in South Africa and as the anchor, Chris had
to intervene when André lost his temper, ripped off his microphone and stormed
off the set, before returning and saying: "You won't dare interrupt me . .
. I am not finished with you." Chris repeatedly said to André, "(Don't)
touch me on my studio, (don't) touch me on my studio" and André’s response
was, "I'll touch you on your studio.” The confrontation led to social
media jokes and video remixes.  2.       He’s a gadget geek of note Chris describes himself as “Inspired by
Africa. Family-first. God-fearing. Gadget-geek,” on his Twitter profile. Judging from his
articles and posts of the latest technological developments, we can see he’s
truly passionate about gadgets.  3.       He’s qualified Unlike Hlaudi, Maroleng holds two degrees.  His LinkedIn
profile states that the new SABC COO has a BA (Hons) and MA degree from the
University of Cape Town. Chris has also received several postgraduate scholarships
and awards and obtained a communications and media qualification at Duke
University in North Carolina. 4.       He’s an experienced journalist Chris has worked at eNCA as a news anchor
and an editor for eNCA Africa for six years.  5.       He’s a former MTN group executive Chris was at telecommunications company
MTN, where he held the position of executive for corporate affairs before being
appointed as the SABC COO.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  