Emmerson Mnangagwa is sworn in as President in Harare. (Ben Curtis, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government has issued a directive to all senior state employees, including government ministers, to declare their assets before the end of February, reports say. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, chief secretary to the president and cabinet, Misheck Sibanda, said in a statement that the directive was aimed at building a transparent, clean and working government. But a New Zimbabwe.com report said that opposition parties and civil society movements had moved to slam the directive, saying that it meant nothing as the government "has had similar initiatives but have not been respected". The People's Democratic Party (PDP) led by Tendai Biti said that there were many other deadlines that the government had not met in the past. The party's spokesperson Jacob Mafume said: "There are so many deadlines that we can't keep and we hope they can meet and keep this one. Their wealth must be in line with their tax payments." Meanwhile, the leader of Transform Zimbabwe, Jacob Ngaruvhume, challenged Mnangagwa, saying he should declare his own assets first in order to be taken seriously. Ngaruvhume said that the president should among other things declare all of his assets that included his "interests in the mines of the Democratic Republic of Congo". Social media users also expressed their views on the mandatory declaration of assets. While some praised the government move, others raised questions about its implementation. Mandatory Declaration of Assets (MDA) by Senior Public Officers-Highly welcome.MDA key in resolving conflicts of interests.What remains unclear from this is- 1) who are is the custodian of MDA @NcubeMj @mukasiri @Wamagaisa @VaMukwakwami @transparencyzim @matigary @PRESIDENT_ED pic.twitter.com/cujMboJhOO #Zimbabwe Senior public service officers (Ministers, deputy ministers, heads of ministries, body chairperson etc) to declare their assets by not later than the 28th of August 2018.#ED100days #OpenParlyZW pic.twitter.com/imxKwbLSvv Zimbabwe government has ordered all ministers, deputies, permanent secretaries, senior principal directors, SOE chairpersons & board members and CEOs to declare assets by end of next month. They must also declare al business interests. Mnangagwa not playing #Breaking Chief Secretary Misheck Sibanda says all ministers & deputies, perm secs, principal directors, board chairs, CEOs of parastatals, local authorities, chairs and members of Commissions should declare assets #Zimbabwe pic.twitter.com/KRcVeSQnVw 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  