Caryn Dolley (File, Caryn Dolley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack is now facing a car theft charge on top of extortion and intimidation charges relating to a nightclub security takeover. Modack and a second accused, Ikeraam Modack, understood to be his relative, appeared in the Goodwood Magistrate's Court on Thursday for the theft of a motor vehicle case. It was their first appearance in connection with the charge. There was a heavy police presence at the Goodwood Magistrate's Court on Thursday ahead of, and during, their appearance. No details about the charge were read out in court. READ: More of Modack’s version and Joburg links expected in extortion case The case was postponed to February 9 for a bail application. However, News24 understands there is a possibility the matter may be withdrawn. If it is not withdrawn and Modack is granted bail, he may still be kept in custody due to the second case against him. Modack is facing intimation and extortion charges in the second case, which is being heard in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court. He is accused alongside Colin Booysen – the brother of alleged Sexy Boys gang boss Jerome Booysen – Jacques Cronje, Ashley Fields and Carl Lakay. They face charges relating to an alleged takeover of security operations at nightclubs and restaurants, forcing owners to pay them. For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld nightclub security takeover, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked. The group was arrested on December 15 and shortly afterwards lodged an application to be released on bail. So far, sensational claims have emerged from it, including that certain police officers are under the control of controversial businessman Mark Lifman. It also emerged in the case that Lifman, controversial businessman Andre Naude and Jerome Booysen are members of a rival faction in the nightclub security saga. The opposing faction, according to police, include Modack and his co-accused. This bail application is expected to continue on Friday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  