News24 users have flooded our inbox with #WaterCrisis tips, ideas and potential solutions. Get some creative water saving inspiration from your fellow readers here! Do you want to submit your idea? Find out how here. Please note that the content posted here has been independently written by members of News24's community. The ideas and tips of users published below are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24. They have not been independently tested and verified and we cannot vouch for them.  This article will be updated daily with new content so be sure to check back for more! Jump to
                    bottom "I really feel that that they are all missing the one most
important point, and that is to show people how much water they are actually
using. I am doing everything I can to save water but I do not know how much (or
less) I am actually using. Not even my water bill shows me in litres.

And in any way if we hit day zero to get a water bill a
month later would be a month too late.

So, give ALL houses and businesses a means of monitoring
usage and I believe you have a real solution. And long term because this problem
in CT will not go away in a year or 2." - Carel

Durbanville. "My idea is to introduce a casual everyday at corporates. Much less washing needed if men can wear shorts, T-shirts
and flipflops for example. Similar for women. Less sweating means less frequent washing required (and less
aircon needed in buildings), can wear same clothes in evenings, and the clothes
themselves are less in volume since no sleeves etc (with less ironing required
too). Most companies already do casual Friday, so this should be
easy to extend. Plus compared to alternatives like moving staff etc it should
really be a no-brainer!" - Charl du Plessis "My tips include using small towels to dry yourself
instead of bath sheets or big towels to make space for other washing in the
washing machine and reduce the number of times you need to wash; as well as
changing your bedding only every 3 or 4 weeks for the same reason. I also have a bowl of shower water in each sink to wash
my hands in during the day." - Ulrike Naumann   "All buildings should
be forced to install waterless urinals. The Mayor should be stopped causing trouble in the press -  she just adds
to the panic" - Patti Rosenberg Here’s how to report noncompliance with water restrictions: Call 0860 103 089 (choose the "water related faults" option) Send an email to water.restrictions@capetown.gov.za SMS 31373 (max of 160 characters) "Create petrol station-like drive-through water collection points with pumps
set to a limit of 25 liters per customer. Benefits: - Ample shade for queuing - Drive through convenience - Can handle higher thoroughfare - Easily accessible - Many petrol stations are already available around the city Benjamin Shannon"  "I do not live in SA anymore but here is a tip:

In 2014 when I was living in Dakar Senegal, the whole
city had to live without running water for 14 days. Desperate times called for
desperate measures and one of the ways we saved on potable water was by
collecting the condensation from air conditioner units. Businesses and hotels of course
have many. We placed large drums under
the disconnected outlet pipe and collected many usable litres of water. Although
we did not drink or cook with this water we used it for washing ourselves,
cleaning floors and flushing the toilet . I can imagine that just at the mining Indaba next week,
that hundreds of air conditioners will be working overtime at the conference
centre and hotels. Hundreds of litres of
clean water will go to waste...

 

I hope this helps. Wishing you all the best and good luck with this
initiative Vicky" "Our water saving methods at home in the Southern Suburbs. I hope you enjoy it... hosted by my boys :)

We uploaded it in December and it shows how we reuse and recycle our water at home. Kind regards
Gareth" "Air-conditioners have a dehumidifier function. The air that
is filtered through to the room has to be dry, so the drainage hose can produce
large amounts of water per day while the air-conditioner is in use. I
have personally collected more than 5l of water per hour on some of my
more humid sites. It would be worth it to collect this water and use it as grey
water. Godspeed to the CapeTownians… Georgie
George" "Firstly, I
recommend towing icebergs from Antarctica to Cape Town. Secondly,
inviting his majesty, Willem Alexander van Oranje Nassau to South Africa so
that he can provide you with long-term advice regarding his expertise with
water-management.

 

Wishing you
all the best under difficult circumstances. Sincerely,

Herman Auer

(The
Netherlands)" Please note that the content posted here has been independently written by members of News24's community. The ideas and tips of users published below are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24. This article will be updated daily with new content so be sure to check back for more! Jump to
                top