Iavan Pijoos Police Minister Fikile Mbalula. (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has promised residents of Kagiso, outside Krugersdorp on the West Rand, that he will get rid of corrupt police officers in the area. "If the police are corrupt here, I must get rid of corrupt elements. If there are elements here that are not assisting in law enforcement, I must deal with that," Mbalula said. The minister was speaking at the local sports stadium in Kagiso on Tuesday where hundreds of residents gathered. Mbalula was accompanied by new national police commissioner General Khehla Sithole and Mogale City Mayor Patrick Lipudi. They met with local residents after violence erupted in the area. They had been protesting against crime, drugs and human trafficking in the area. WATCH: Protesters shut down Krugersdorp in bloody protest Townships in Mogale City and the Krugersdorp central business district (CBD) were effectively shut down on Monday. Protesters torched several buildings suspected of being drug dens, and looted shops and taverns in the CBD. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said 59 people had been arrested for public violence on Monday. Residents had claimed that police officers were being paid by foreign nationals. READ: Police make two more arrests following Krugersdorp protest Mbalula said he had to meet with community members so as to understand their concerns, before he could blame them for taking the law into their own hands. "These people can't just wake up and just take to the streets, and we don't understand them as to what are the concerns. "The demands of the people are genuine. For them to do what they are doing, it means I must come to the party. I can't complain from my Twitter box or Facebook." Mbalula said anyone who was in the country unlawfully and promoted criminal activities would be locked up. "Whether they are coming from Nigeria or wherever they are coming from, I must fix them and put them in their place and lock them up," he said. Mbalula had also launched phase two of Operation Fiela on Tuesday. The first operation was launched in 2015, with its main focus on illegal immigrants. "We can't agree to exist with criminal activity. Enough is enough."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  