Jonathan Moyo (file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – The Zimbabwean government
has reportedly hit out at former minister of higher education Professor Jonathan
Moyo over claims he made on a BBC current affairs programme that former president Robert Mugabe was ousted by a "military coup". Moyo, who spoke to BBC's
Hardtalk from an undisclosed location after he slipped out of the country when
the army took over control last year, said that Zimbabwe's new president
Emmerson Mnangagwa stole power and was leading an "illegal regime".  "Mnangagwa
and [Vice President Constantino] Chiwenga, they know only too well that they
have come into power via the bullet and not the ballot," Moyo said.  Moyo said that the southern African country had
a constitution that Zimbabweans "made for
themselves and it has been broken and it has been broken via a coup".  But presidential spokesperson George Charamba dismissed
Moyo's claims as "rantings of a bitter man". According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Charamba, who spoke during an interview with a private radio station Capitalk on
Thursday, said that the issue of legitimacy or illegitimacy could not be
determined by a "bitter professor". Major crisis  "…So really the
issue of legitimacy or illegitimacy does not arise. You saw what happened at
Zimbabwe Grounds; you saw what happened by way of an-across the political
spectrum support.' The action that had been mounted, mounted to avert a major
crisis that was actually a creation by people like Jonathan Moyo. So really
this is a bitter, bitter defeated politician who suffers from what the late
Eddison Zvobgo would have called 'power denial psychosis'," Charamba was quoted
as saying.  A New Zimbabwe.com report cited Charamba as
saying that Moyo was part of a "cabal" that had taken advantage of Mugabe. "The military stepped in to stop the cabal
that had tried to take advantage of the former president to launch itself into
power it had never legally campaigned for," Charamba said. Moyo was one of the leading figures of the Generation 40 (G40)
faction within Zanu-PF that was promoting former first lady Grace Mugabe to
take over from her husband until he was ousted during the November 15 military
takeover and replaced with Mnangagwa. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  