Patrick Zhuwao (Via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - Robert Mugabe's nephew says he
plans to travel to Davos, Switzerland to thwart efforts by President Emmerson
Mnangagwa to lure investors to Zimbabwe. In a blog post published on New Zimbabwe website, Patrick Zhuwao
described Mnangagwa as an “economic predator” who he claimed wanted to “hoodwink”
participants at the World Economic Forum meeting in the Swiss resort town. “Only EDiots will become prey to
this economic predator,” wrote Zhuwao, playing on Mnangagwa’s intials, ED. He said Mnangagwa was “coming
here to Davos so that he can find takers for the resources that they have
captured from Zimbabweans”. Zhuwao, who has been in exiled
since the military takeover in November that removed his uncle from power, said
he planned to expose Mnangagwa and his delegation, who have travelled to Davos
to engage with top global investors. “ED’s primary objective at Davos
is the recruitment of more EDiots who will be conned and deprived of their
wealth and resources. He will find #2018Resistance waiting for him there;
working the conference behind the scenes,” said Zhuwao. #2018Resistance is a
term coined by Zhuwao to protest Mnangagwa’s rise to power. Zhuwao was a member of the G40
faction of the ruling Zanu-PF that backed former first lady Grace Mugabe to
take over from her husband. Until the November 15 takeover that installed
Mnangagwa as president, G40 had the upper hand within the ruling party. Mnangagwa is understood to be
travelling with top government officials, including the central bank chief and
cabinet ministers. Members of the private sector are also part of the
delegation. Last week the president said he
would tell investors in Davos that Zimbabwe was open for business and that
their investments would be safe. Before the takeover in November,
Zhuwao was a minister of labour and social welfare. Before that, his spell as
indigenisation minister was marred by threats he made to shut down local
commercial banks if they failed to comply with a controversial indigenisation
law. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  