Paul Herman The Hawks head offices. (Deaan Vivier, Gallo Images, Beeld) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANC secretary general Ace Magashule on Monday said it was no secret that his son worked for the controversial Gupta family, but insisted that he is not involved in the Vrede dairy farm debacle.

WATCH Bloemfontein - The Hawks are currently conducting search and
seizure operations relating to the Vrede Dairy matter, at both the office of
Free State Premier Ace Magashule and the provincial office of the Department of
Agriculture. Two specialised units of the Hawks were on Friday searching
for specific documents and electronic data linked to the case, spokesperson
Hangwani Mulaudzi confirmed to News24. "If there is a need for us to confiscate or seize, then
we have those members present as well, and they are also downloading
everything," Mulaudzi said. "We are dealing with criminal cases, not civil
cases." They will be there all day on Friday, and will be going to
the farm on Saturday to speak to the beneficiaries. Farm seized Magashule faced a barrage of questions from the media on
Monday relating to his role as premier in the failed Free State project. It was
supposed to empower small black farmers in line with the ANC's transformation
policies. The court order issued by the Free State High Court last
Thursday puts Krynaauws Lust farm, near Vrede, in the Free State, under
curatorship of the NPA's Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU). The affidavit also revealed that Free State's agricultural
department – under then MEC Mosebenzi Zwane – paid R220m to the Guptas in what
the AFU calls a "scheme designed to defraud and steal monies from the
department". - Read more about the dairy project: Inside the Gupta heist One hundred black emerging farmers were promised five cows
each as part of the empowerment scheme, but they never received them. Gifted to the Gupta-linked Estina in 2013 under a free
99-year lease by the provincial agriculture department, the farm has been one
of the most scandalous transactions between the Guptas and a government entity. The #GuptaLeaks revealed last year how at least R30m paid to the Guptas via the farm ended up funding the family's lavish Sun City wedding in 2013. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  