Khatija Nxedlana PHOTO: Getty Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Imagine receiving an SMS from the bank informing you that
you've won R70 million in the Lotto? This is exactly what happened to one
extremely lucky Gauteng resident. The man, who prefers to remain anonymous, says he's a
regular Lotto player who started when the Lotto commenced 18 years ago. "At the time, I wasn't regular, I didn't want to stand
in queues but when you could play the lotto through FNB, it became easier,"
he says. Over the years, the largest amount he'd ever won playing the
lotto was R1 300, which he says was only last year. Perhaps this was the
prelude to his next big win. Just like he does every week, he spent R240 on his Quick
Pick tickets through the FNB banking app on the January 12th draw. The next day, he received an SMS from the bank. 'Is this not a scam?' "I heard two messages coming in, one after the other,
so I thought, 'Argh, it's a please call me'. I didn't even pay attention to it,"
he says. When he finally did check his messages, the SMS read, 'You're
the first tier winner of Powerball/Powerball Plus. An agent will contact you
within two working days.' "I thought, 'Really? Is this not a scam, is this really
true?'" He says he had a few errands to run and went about his day
with this news lingering at the back of his mind, still thinking it might be a
scam. Still keeping it to himself, he decided to check his banking
app again – checking the numbers he played against the winning numbers – and found
that they indeed matched. He was the sole winner of Powerball, while there were five
winners for Powerball Plus. He doesn't reveal who the first person he called was, only
referring to him as his confidante. "I phoned him and said, 'Chief, you need to come.' When
he arrived, I said, 'There's this thing . . .' He couldn't believe it either.
That night he called me saying he couldn't sleep, because he kept thinking is
it really happening. We went to the Ithuba National Lottery offices on Monday
and it was confirmed," he says. Overwhelming feeling The married father of three is dressed casually in a cap,
golf shirt, shorts and sneakers. He likens the overwhelming feeling to
receiving news of someone's passing. "At first you can't believe it. Then the funeral
preoccupies you, emotionally, you haven't dealt with it. It's only after the
funeral when everyone is gone that you begin to feel the emotion," he
says. While it hasn't quite sunk in for the man, who refers to
himself only as a Gauteng professional, he doesn't plan on splurging. He says he's still feeling overwhelmed after the counselling
and financial planning sessions. He says nobody but his confidante knows about his big win,
not even his family. He doesn't have any plans of informing them either, saying
that people tend to get a little carried away when they receive a lump sum. "The only thing I'm excited about is that I'm going to
pay off my debts," he says enthusiastically. He says he plans to invest the money and will ensure that
his children's school fees are covered. He has one in primary school, one in
high school and a third in university. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  