Zimbabwe elections expected before July: president Davos - Zimbabwe's new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said on Wednesday that the country would go to the polls before July, in the first elections since Robert Mugabe was ousted after 37 years in power. Mnangagwa, who took office in November after a shock military takeover led to Mugabe's ousting, promised to hold a fair vote. Under Mugabe, who had ruled since 1980, Zimbabwean elections were marred by vote-rigging, intimidation and violent suppression of the opposition. Read more on this story here Botswana police release Grace Mugabe supercars impounded after freak accident Gaborone - Three luxury cars belonging to the Mugabe family were briefly detained in Botswana after the vehicles were involved in a crash as they were driven out of Zimbabwe, police said on Tuesday. The Rolls Royce Ghost, a red Porsche and a Range Rover were damaged when the convoy - led by former first lady Grace Mugabe's son - slowed down to avoid cattle crossing the road. The vehicles were hit by a Toyota Corolla near the village of Artesia, 80km northeast of the capital Gaborone, in the nighttime accident on Friday, police said. For more on this story click here Israeli pilots 'refuse to fly deported African asylum seekers' - report Tel Aviv – Pilots from Israeli's national airline, El AI, are reportedly refusing to fly African asylum seekers, who are being deported from the Middle East country, saying that they disagree with Israel's strict new laws. According to The Times of Israel, the move by the pilots was mainly symbolic as the airline did not have direct flights to the affected African countries. At least three El Al pilots posted on Facebook that they had refused participating in the government driven deportations which had since been condemned by rights group. For more on this story click here EU likely to lift 'ruinous' economic sanctions against Zim – report Madrid – Some European Union (EU) countries have reportedly expressed their intention to have sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe for nearly two decades lifted. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, some countries under the EU were considering advocating for the lifting of the sanctions in response to recent political developments in the southern African country. The honorary consul for Zimbabwe in Spain, Jose Maria Camallonga was quoted as saying that President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s optimism and enthusiasm towards reforms had convinced some countries in the European block to request regional executives to lift the sanctions imposed on the African country. For more on this story click here Queen Elizabeth II 'seeks to reconcile Britain with Zimbabwe – report London – Britain's Queen Elizabeth II is seeking to mend fractured relations between Zimbabwe and her country, a report says, adding that she is hoping the southern African country can rejoin the Commonwealth. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, there were indications the two countries would soon be holding high level diplomatic meetings in their bid to mend their ties. The report said that Britain had already sent two of its top diplomats as it pushed a more engaging stance towards Zimbabwe. Read more on this story here Egypt's Sisi formally submits nomination documents Cairo - President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi has submitted his nomination documents to Egypt's election commission, a day after a potentially serious challenger was arrested over criminal allegations. Sisi did not submit the documents in person, leaving a representative to do that Wednesday. Images released by his office showed workers taking out of the back of a van boxes bearing the president's image and the phrase "long live Egypt!" Sisi's trademark slogan. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  