Fever Reporter PHOTO: SUPPLIEDThe Baby House donation box. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE Baby House is a safe dwelling for abandoned babies. It is a registered NPO that cares for and nurtures babies in their care until they are adopted. The babies are placed at the safe house by a registered social worker who either works with the mothers before the birth, or she is contacted by the relevant authorities in the case of abandonment. The babies arrive within days, or sometimes hours, after birth. The safe house can accommodate up to six babies at any time. At The Baby House babies are given love, shelter, nourishment and appropriate medical care when necessary. The aim is for the babies in their care to reach their full potential by facilitating the meeting of appropriate physical developmental milestones and experiencing emotional stability and love. To this end, they encourage volunteers to spend time with the babies - holding them, talking to them and stimulating their senses. The babies flourish with a little individual attention and a lot of love. Their wish is for the babies to be integrated into the community. This socialising and bonding aids their transition once matched to an adoptive family. A secondary goal is to raise awareness in the community that safe houses like The Baby House exist. They hope that this awareness translates into a greater understanding of the growing problem of baby abandonment. The running of The Baby House requires frequent and on-going fund-raising as government child care grants are sporadic, and corporate sponsorships are difficult to obtain. The Baby House’s needs are very much like that a family home - cleaning products such as laundry detergents, dishwashing liquid, disinfectants and, of course, baby consumables - nappies, wet wipes, bath toiletries, formula, porridge, Purity, fresh fruit and vegetables. Community awareness and donations allow the home to continue to exist and care for one of the most valuable, but vulnerable, sectors of our society. Please consider getting involved with this home. The benefit to the babies and to all in the community is immeasurable. The Baby House has placed donation boxes at the following places to make donating items so convenient: •Pick n Pay Village Junction Westville •Pick n Pay Village Market Westville •Superspar Westville The Westville Mall (inside Clicks at the dispensary) You can also make them a beneficiary on your My School Card. For more informfation, contact Terri Wentzel on 061 125 0887 or Nola Smorenburg on 083 247 1423 orthebabyhousewestville@gmail. com or on Facebook: Friends of the Baby House Westville.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.