Premier Helen Zille at the Newlands spring. (Tammy Petersen) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Robert J. Traydon It's amazing how the blame game works. Cape Town’s water crisis is being blamed on
national government’s failure to maintain/expand water storage and supply
infrastructure; while local government is being blamed for not recognising the
crisis soon enough and delaying mitigating intervention. As a contrarian, my take on the water crisis is
somewhat different. First and foremost, I blame us for driving fossil-fuelled
cars, and the world’s largest CO2-emitting nations (including our
own) for their criminally sluggish shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy
alternatives. These actions are exacerbating climate change which is most
likely responsible for the life-threatening downward trend in annual rainfall
across the Western and Eastern Cape. Secondly, I blame humanity’s pervasive reluctance
to put measures in place to manage our species’ unsustainable population growth
– which will continue to compound our water woes until some form of ‘population
plateau policy’ is introduced. And thirdly, I blame our population’s acceptance,
if not promotion, of lifestyle overindulgence. The life-threatening disease of lifestyle overindulgence Unfortunately, there’s a vacuum of social and
political will to address the first and second reasons for this water disaster but,
fortunately, the third is well within our means. Lifestyle overindulgence is synonymous with our
species’ carelessness in living beyond the carrying capacity of our surrounding
environment. Across the world, the convenience and affordability of piped water
have allowed us to become complacent about how much water we use and where we
get it from. Environmental violation aside, this complacency
couldn’t have been emphasised more by Cape Town’s dire water crisis, which has
taken centre stage on local and international news. But, to the credit of
roughly 40% of Cape Town’s population, the crisis has stirred a fundamental
shift in mindset… one that embraces the concept of lifestyle moderation. As for the other 60% of Capetonians: they’re
either ignorant, nonchalant or in denial about the unprecedented catastrophe
that awaits them. Hence the urgent need for a Day Zero rehearsal which, as a
priority, should target those suburbs across the city that are showing the
lowest compliance to the current water restrictions. The sooner the City simulates a Day Zero water
shutdown, the better, because it will serve as a much-needed wake-up call for
all those seemingly disinterested Capetonians who are flouting water
conservation efforts. And nothing rings truer than: the best way to get people
to respect water is to make them carry what they use. Hopefully the 60% can find it deep within themselves
to exercise some level of austerity before Day Zero kicks in, or they’ll end up
being both the least prepared and most affected people when it does. Day Zero rehearsal is everyone’s responsibility Although it would be hugely beneficial for the
City to organise a Day Zero rehearsal, don’t count on them actually doing it. The
sad truth is, Cape Town might well run out of water before the City even has
time to schedule a rehearsal – as alluded to in last week’s article titled, "The day after Day Zero". So, rather than waiting helplessly for the City
to carry out a rehearsal, Capetonians should take responsibility for conducting
their own Day Zero rehearsals. For instance: - Go out and buy as many 25 litre water
containers as there are members in your household (and some spares); - Shut off your property’s water supply at the
incoming municipal main, and only open it once each day to fill the water
containers where you park your car; - Either carry or use a delivery trolley to
take the containers inside, or organise someone strong to assist you; - From there, experiment with various methods
of decanting and distributing water to different parts of your home by means of
more manageable 5 or 10 litre water containers; and - Condition the members of your household to
get by on their respective daily quotas of water. - By running your own rehearsals for your home and/or
your business before Day Zero actually arrives, you will be better positioned
than most to deal with the days, weeks and potentially even months of hardship
that will follow. Citizens' proactiveness will reduce possible chaos Capetonians should try not to be caught up in
the buying frenzy of 5, 10 and 25 litre water containers, tap adapters, delivery
trolleys or wheelbarrows around the time of Day Zero. Be proactive early on so
you can save all your strength and patience for the inevitable queues at the
water collection points. Hopefully the City will be sensible enough to
open the water collection points at least a week before Day Zero arrives, to
allow people to test water collection for themselves and spread word as to how it
works. It would also give the City a window of opportunity to iron out any
last-minute teething problems. It must be said though, that the greatest
challenge Capetonians will face is getting used to life on much less water. The
sooner people moderate their usage to just 25 litres a day, the easier the transition
will be when Day Zero finally rolls around… and that might well be sooner than
we all expect. - Robert J. Traydon is a BSc graduate of Engineering and the author of Wake-up Call: 2035 He’s travelled to over 40
countries across six continents and worked in various business spheres. As a contrarian thinker, his articles explore a wide range of current affairs from a unique perspective. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   