Tsvangirai 'stopped from seeking further treatment in Germany', as his health 'deteriorates' – reports Harare – Zimbabwean Movement for Democratic Change leader Morgan Tsvangirai is reportedly battling for his life in South Africa where he is receiving medical attention. Tsvangirai, a former prime minister, announced in 2016 that he had been diagnosed with colon cancer and had begun chemotherapy. He hoped to lead a united opposition into 2018's general elections. Reports on Friday said Tsvangirai's situation had gone dire, with NewsDay saying that his doctors had indicated he had "three months to live". Read more on this story here Mnangagwa on land: 'We don't think along racial lines... it's outdated' Davos - Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa says his new government believes thinking along racial lines is "outdated" when it comes to farming and land ownership. The president says white Zimbabwean farmers left on the land had integrated "happily" into the country's new farming system, albeit on smaller land holdings. "We don't want to think along racial lines – that there are white farmers and black farmers. That should be a philosophy of the past," Mnangagwa told the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland on Wednesday. Read more on this story here 13 traders dead after truck hits explosive device in Mali Ouagadougou - A local councilman says at least 13 people have died after their truck hit an improvised explosive device after entering Mali from northern Burkina Faso. Moumouni Tamboura, who works in Djibo village in Burkina Faso, said on Thursday the dead were traders who leave Burkina Faso every Thursday for a weekly market in Mali. He says they were killed near Boni village in Mali. For more on this story click here Zim VP Chiwenga 'causes a stir' in parliament as he 'threatens' opposition leader Harare – Zimbabwean Vice President Constantino Chiwenga reportedly left lawmakers from the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) outraged when he told the party's vice president Nelson Chamisa during a parliamentary session that the country would have been better off if he had not gone to the US and other places "campaigning for sanctions". According to New Zimbabwe.com, the problem started after Chamisa asked about pensions for war veterans. Chamisa reportedly said that all the countries in the world, except Zimbabwe, took care of their war veterans. He said that the Zimbabwean government seemed reluctant to "restore the legacy" of war veterans. For more on this story click here Trump praises African leader after White House dustup Davos - President Donald Trump sought to mend relations on Friday with a key African leader in the aftermath of his controversial comments about African nations. He praised the US partnership with Rwanda during a meeting with its president at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland. Trump's meeting with Rwandan President Paul Kagame came after Trump drew widespread condemnation for allegedly referring to African nations as "shithole countries" in dismissing a bipartisan immigration proposal, according to those at the meeting. Read more on this story here Kenya opposition claims 'authentic' results show Odinga won Nairobi - Kenya's opposition released what it called "authentic" election results showing its leader Raila Odinga won the August vote, but it refused to say on Friday how it obtained the information from the electoral commission's servers. Kenya's electoral commission quickly called the announcement a "deliberate effort to create a non-existent reality" as the opposition prepares to hold a so-called "inauguration" of Odinga next week in protest of President Uhuru Kenyatta's new term. The United States has advised against the event, and Kenya's attorney general has called it treasonous, while East Africa's economic hub tries to move beyond months of sometimes deadly election turmoil. For more on this story click here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  