Jenni Evans Genevieve Heathcote-Marks had two jobs to get through matric and other issues and  received a Special Ministerial award from Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer at a function hosted by Premier Helen Zille (Jenni Evans, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – A pupil who had to leave home because of personal circumstances and support herself through matric with two jobs, and another who had to wait until loud shebeen music had stopped so that he could study, received special awards from Western Cape education MEC Debbie Schafer in Cape Town on Thursday. "We are struck by the courage and fortitude displayed by many learners and families in achieving monumental goals," said Schafer when handing out the Special Ministerial Awards. "The first one I have chosen precisely because it is often assumed that if one goes to a school in the so-called 'leafy suburbs', everything comes easy," said Schafer at the annual awards ceremony hosted at Premier Helen Zille's official residence in Gardens. Genevieve Heathcote-Marks, who matriculated from Westerford High School in Cape Town, lost her mother in primary school and in high school moved into rented accommodation with another family. She worked two jobs in between her school work, was involved in school life as an opera singer, and got six distinctions with an average of 83.3%. Another hard-working pupil, Benedict Nafooh Khobotle, lived near a noisy shebeen in Wallacedene, Kraaifontein, where violence, drugs, and gangs are prevalent. Loud music played into the night but instead of giving up, he waited for it to finally stop, and then hit the books. He also helped his unemployed single mother look after his 7-year-old brother while she went to look for work. He was the top matric pupil in the June and September exams at Scottsdene Secondary School last year, and passed matric with two distinctions, a 72% aggregate, and a bachelor's degree pass which gives him a chance to study at university.   Benedict Nafooh Khobotle receiving a special ministerial award from Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer at a function hosted by Premier Helen Zille. (Jenni Evans, News24) "This learner, likewise, is a true inspiration and a fine example for others in similar circumstances. These marks, under these circumstances, make him a top student in my eyes," said Schafer. Awards were also presented for excellence in subject performance, excellence despite barriers to learning and awards for the top 50 positions in the province.  The province's top three candidates were among the pupils and schools recognised for their achievements. Schools' improvement recognised Janke Van Dyk, from Hoërskool Bellville, was the top-achieving matric pupil in the province (and in the country), Matthys Louis Carstens from Hoërskool Durbanville came second provincially and Rondebosch Boys' High School pupil Erin Michael Solomon came third provincially.  Principals whose schools increased their pass rates significantly or shone in particular subjects were also recognised. The most improved public school was Aloe Secondary School in Mitchells Plain and the most improved technical high school was Delft Technical High School in Delft, also on the Cape Flats.  Sithembele Matiso Secondary School in Nyanga showed the greatest increase in bachelor's passes. Schools were also recognised for improvement and excellence in individual subjects, and overall results.  Schafer said she was amazed every year by the vast number of pupils who achieve excellent results, separated by points and percentage points who do not get recognised at the awards ceremony. "And to them, I also wish to say a huge well done. We can't all be in the top spots. But if you have worked consistently and done your best, you are as much of a hero as our learners here today." Matric a 'head start' Zille encouraged pupils to keep learning and to keep adapting. She said she found the way the results were finalised and standardisation processes "more complex than (Albert) Einstein's theory of gravitational waves". But what really baffled her was how pupils did well against the odds. "I've got 18 months of the premiership left, and I am absolutely determined to start cracking that conundrum," she said. She said the matriculants being recognised had an enormous head start in life and a chance to make an impact on the country. The Western Cape got a matric pass rate of 82.7% for 2017. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  