Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories   The annual Design Indaba Festival 2018 will run from 21 - 24 February 2018 at the Artscape Theatre Centre in Cape Town. An experiential wonderland of live music, films, Chefs Table dinners, performances and exhibitions, the festival encompasses the Design Indaba’s longstanding annual Film Festival, Nightscape, and the Most Beautiful Object in South Africa, as well as the Emerging Creatives Programme. New to the festival in 2018 are pop-up restaurants featuring renowned chefs and stand-alone performances by headline acts. Festival passes are available to the general public – you don’t need to be a conference delegate to attend. An all-access, three-night pass allows festivalgoers to experience the full offering of creative excellence. Alternatively, a one-night ticket will allow you to catch a smaller selection of the amazing performing acts and progressive installations on offer. Nightscape will run from 22 – 23 February 2018 on the Artscape Piazza. Expect a wonderland of curated gourmet street food, DJs, VIP hospitality suites, installations, performers and music, creating an immersive experience in which you wouldn’t be surprised to find a conference speaker taking the stage to perform a DJ set. The specially curated selection on offer expands the continent and beyond, with highlights coming from unknown talents around Africa, special performances by selected conference speakers, and a range of local and international artists breaking boundaries. Not to mention crowd-pulling headline acts. Emerging Creatives will showcase samples of their work from 21 – 24 February 2018 within the Artscape. The Emerging Creatives Programme excels in supporting the next generation of creative talents and provides young designers with a much-needed launch platform. The Most Beautiful Object in South Africa showcase gives the nation a chance to express what constitutes beauty. While some may consider beauty an aspect of taste and others know it on sight, beauty becomes far more profound than a visual sensation when design attributes such as social significance, economic impact, usability, sustainability and even humour are thrown into the mix. The Most Beautiful Object in South Africa showcase runs from 21 – 24 February 2018 at the Artscape. The Design Indaba Film Festival will run from 22 – 23 February 2018 and screenings take place in the Artscape Arena during the evenings. There will be a selection of films on offer, with two screenings per night, at 18:00 and 20:30. The ticket price per film is R85. Admission to both the Most Beautiful Object in South Africa and Emerging Creatives are included in the Nightscape, Film Festival and conference tickets and will give attendees a view into the future of creativity in South Africa and across the continent. Tickets for Nightscape and the Film Festival (on sale from 10 December 2017) are available from Webtickets and are sold separately to the Design Indaba Conference and Simulcast. For updates on the Design Indaba Festival 2018 and for ticketing information please visit www.designindaba.com/festival 24.com is in partnership with Design Indaba 2018. (Images Supplied) 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  