Caster Semenya. (Getty) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – The suspended Gauteng department of health head, Dr Barney Selebano, has resigned, a budget crisis halts funding of 700 nurses and see Sharon Stone’s reaction to being asked about sexual harassment in Hollywood. Here are some of our top stories for the day: 14 Gupta linked companies and individuals to have their assets frozen At least 14 people and entities linked to the alleged corruption by Gupta-linked company Trillian and international consultancy firm McKinsey have been identified in a preservation order obtained by the Asset Forfeiture Unit. R50bn expected to be seized in 17 state capture cases - AFU The Asset Forfeiture Unit says it is hoping to seize at least R50bn in 17 cases it is currently investigating related to state capture. A new era of modern leadership has dawned under Ramaphosa South Africa’s era of being ruled over by an African Strongman, almost a traditional chief, is over and a new era of modern leadership has started, writes Max du Preez. Suspended Gauteng health department head resigns The suspended head of the Gauteng department of health, Dr Barney Selebano, has submitted his resignation letter to the Gauteng premier.  Africa should respond to Trump's racist rant by taking the moral high ground Official reactions from Africa were appropriately critical of President Donald Trump’s credibly reported comments about not wanting more immigrants coming to the US from “shithole” countries. This included all those south of the Sahara. A few reactions even included constructive suggestions. Mugabe's ex-deputy 'doesn't deserve exit package... he deserted his post', war vets claim Zimbabwean authorities have reportedly remained mum over the pension of former vice president Phelekezela Mphoko amid accusations by the country's war veterans that he deserted his government position. Caster nominated for top Laureus award An impressive collection of the greatest men, women and teams in sport have been nominated for the 2018 Laureus World Sports Awards. WATCH: Sharon Stone's reaction to being asked about sexual harassment in Hollywood goes viral Sharon Stone’s response to being asked if she has experienced sexual harassment in the industry is going viral and for all the right reasons.  No funds to train 700 Gauteng nurses Poor planning and the ongoing health budget crisis will see 700 nurses unable to start their first year of nursing training, DA Gauteng health spokesperson Jack Bloom said on Tuesday. Holding a sneeze blew a hole in this man's throat A British man lost his voice and spent a week in hospital after he tried to stop a forceful sneeze by pinching his nose and closing his mouth. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  