Jana van der Merwe PHOTO: Facebook/ @Exclusive Books 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Kempton
Park grandmother Carina Greyling always joked to her kids that if there were
ever a robbery in a shopping centre she'd want to be in a bookshop.  "I
always said that I'd gladly be a hostage – right there in the corner with a
book," says Carina. To be locked in a book shop overnight and have the
freedom to read whatever she wants was her dream. And
then, on her 60th birthday, which she celebrated on Sunday 7 January, her dream
became a reality. The
executive head of Exclusive Books, Benjamin Trisk and her four daughters worked
together to create a bedroom inside Exclusive Books' Hyde Park branch in
Johannesburg in honour of Carina’s special day.  "How
could I say no to making Mrs Greyling's birthday wish come true, especially
since she and I share a birthday?" Benjamin said about the special request
which he received from Leanne Jonsson (31), one of Carina's daughters, early in
December last year via email.  Carina,
a grandmother of three grandchildren and an administrator at Norkem Park High
School in Kempton Park, could not stop talking about the huge surprise when YOU
magazine called her on Wednesday to ask about the events of the past
weekend.  Carina's
daughters Michelle Greyling (39), her twins Leanda Perel and Leeanne Jonsson
(33) and Nicole Greyling (31) had already started spoiling their mother on
Saturday. "Sjoe,
I was pampered with a mani, a pedi and my hair was cut!" Carina gushes.  The
Sunday morning of her birthday she was treated to carrot cake. "It was the
most delicious carrot cake ever, my children know how much I love carrot
cake..."  Later
that day she received a gift certificate for a book and that evening they took
her out for supper. "My children know how I feel about books. I get one
for my birthday, Christmas, and for me and my husband, Brian's,
anniversary.  "I
love reading," she says. Her favourite writers are Nora Roberts, Kathy
Reichs and James Patterson, she says. The afternoon before they went out her
daughters helped her do her makeup and insisted that she wear one of the
outfits they bought for her birthday.  That
evening after dinner at a restaurant in Melrose Arch she thought: "That's
that, what a lekker birthday this was!" But her biggest gift was still to
come... Their
mother’s birthday wouldn't be complete without a book- and her daughter
suggested they go get her one. "I
told Leanne them, do you know it's 9 pm, all the shops are closed! But Leanne
told me: ‘No mom, Exclusive Books has a restaurant that's open until late’." The
first sign Carina saw that something was afoot was when she saw her name
written in silver on balloons against the restaurant wall. Then she saw the
beautiful bed with its lovely linen and framed photos of her family on the nightstand. The awesome CEO and staff at @ExclusiveBooks went out of their way to fulfill the most #epic #birthdaydream for my Mom’s 60th Birthday..can’t thank them enough for going more than out of their way.. #bestbirthdayever #anightinheaven pic.twitter.com/BcOWeYovGj  Naturally
there was a pile of books by her favourite authors waiting for her and a pot of
coffee preparing her for what lies ahead... "I
couldn't believe what I was seeing. I was terrified that someone would pinch me
and say: ‘Ma’am, sorry you need to leave this shop is closed’." Carina
says she immediately headed for a stand stocked with bestsellers. "Ahhh
the smell of new books..." Carina
read all night, but at around 3 am she could no longer keep her eyes open
after all the day’s excitement.  The next morning she was treated to a R1000
gift voucher from Exclusive Books and she left with six books,
including James Patterson's latest book Haunted and Shari Lapena's A
Stranger in the house. That
night she read Janet Evanovich's Hardcore Twenty-Four and still wants to go
back for it.  The
teachers and children at Norkem Park know her as a bookworm and often borrow
books from her. "I don't even mind of they don't bring the books back, as
long as they pass them on to someone else... books are a dream world to me, an
escape, you can't put a price on that." And
it makes her even happier when she sees young people reading and they'll be able
to collect her new books from her office in the new school year. "It
was truly the best birthday gift."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  