Nomzamo Yuku
 @Nomzamoyuku The newly founded Water Crisis Coalition is expected to attract many supporters, as the first two meetings were reportedly a huge success. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Water Crisis Coalition has been formed to oppose some of the water restrictions imposed by the City of Cape Town. The coalition was reportedly formed on Thursday 11 January and has held two meetings already. Both were held in Salt River, with the most recent being on Thursday 18 January. It is currently mobilising a public protest to take place on Sunday 28 January. It has been reported that the main focus is to address the irregularities of the City of Cape Town in addressing the matter of the water shortage, to inform the public how to avoid being manipulated into believing the threats posed by the City, and to find means to stop the City from continuing with illegal regulations. Currently, its members are at a stage of appointing four different committees, namely legal, research, mobilising and media. It is said the coalition will identify those who have relevant expertise in each of these titles to drive the respective committees. According to one of the founders, Ashley Fataar, the coalition is already supported by 100 people from different suburbs including Salt River, Retreat, Wynberg, Mitchell’s Plain, Philippi, Bellville, Table View and Langa. He says they are calling on the public to support this campaign and have their views heard. The campaign is promoted via a Facebook page and leaflets are expected to be distributed across Cape Town. “This purpose of doing this is to promote a campaign against the illegalities and threats posed by the City to the public regarding the water situation. What the City is doing is wrong. We will disclose why we ended up in this situation in the first place, how it could have been prevented in the first place, and the attempts by the City to privatise water. Water is a necessity and is a natural resource – they cannot privatise it. We will reveal that the so-called crisis is a scam to scare the poor,” Fataar says. He says the installation of water restriction devices is illegal and public should not allow any officials onto their property without a court order. Ebrahim Fourie, who attended the meetings, says he supports the coalition because it addresses the reality of the situation where the City is putting fear into the poor in order to privatise water. Currently the City is running a campaign about adapting to the new normal to avoid Day Zero. According to various press statements issued by the City, Day Zero is now likely to come a month earlier, which could be in April. This is when taps will be switched off and the public will have to queue at water collection points. The City is also busy installing water restriction devices in households that are overusing water. The City had not responded to the query at the time of going to print. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  