Mahlohonolo Magadla PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Twitter continues to prove to us how unforgiving it can be
and that no one is safe. Not even the City of Cape Town’s premier, Helen Zille. In the midst of the City of Cape Town’s Water crisis, Zille
has been urging residents of Cape Town to save as much water as possible
through a series of pictures that show her doing everyday activities using less
water. These activities include re-using bathwater to flush the
toilet, using one water bowl to wash all your fruits and many more ways. But one particular picture received the attention of tweeps
and the premier found herself in the middle of a twitter storm. In the picture, Zille has her feet in a zinc ‘skottel’ with
the caption, “This is me standing in my skottel to wash. It's amazing how
little water one actually needs for a good scrub. The water is cold bcos
waiting for warm wastes too much.” After seeing this post, some twitter users took offence and
mentioned that black people have been living that way while some users were not
convinced that the premier actually took a bath in the ‘skottel’ due to its
small size. Check out some of the reactions below: This is me standing in my skottel to wash. It's amazing how little water one actually needs for a good scrub. The water is cold bcos waiting for warm wastes too much. pic.twitter.com/AJXG1Oh0CY Frankly, that is sick.  Wherever you are, you are not immune from water-scarcity.  And have you ever heard about Karma?  Let me warn you:  She's a Bitch. If u were really in washing in skottel, u would have started with ur face, then progress down. Feet is last. PR this???????? Good to know that you are experiencing  whats it like washing in a skottel. The less fortunate in SA  have been using this method to wash for many years due to governments lack of providing services. The disparity between the have and have not's is alarming. This is PR Washing in a dish but you start with your feet? Never! Soap? pic.twitter.com/xC4J9c9wft And this is a VASKOM, That one looks like you bought it from Cashbuild in the sink isle.. pic.twitter.com/IJcq0SZXbj Sudlala ngamanzi,you could have put a green sunlight bar next to it we would have tried to believe you. pic.twitter.com/uFDbVkEzAf We grew up with no water. We used to push a wheelbarrow loaded with minimum 3 buckets of water for about 2km and we'd do that everyday. Nice to see that you now know how it feels. Just make sure that the guys in Stellenbosh keep up with the programme. ????  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  