Jerry Barnes COULD the recent campaign by former Safa vice-president Chief Mwelo Nonkonyana be a joke? Last week the outspoken soccer administrator from the Eastern Cape confirmed he will be running for the Safa presidency, a position currently held by Danny Jordaan. Nonkonyana is a former Safa executive member and also Safa deputy president. He said his contribution to soccer is far from over. “I always take myself as being a good servant for South African soccer and believe I’m still needed to positively contribute. I have already started to drum up support in my roadshow for my campaign,” he said. Nonkonyana’s sudden comeback is being taken as a joke by some local administrators, especially Safa national executive members. Jordaan has confirmed he will stand for re-election when his term comes to an end in March. Jordaan, a Mandela Bay Municipality resident, is believed to enjoy massive support in the country. The KZN and Pietermaritzburg based Safa executive member, also the president of the South African Indoor Football Association (futal), Poobie Govindansamy said Nonkonyana’s comeback is fruitless and won’t produce positive results. Govindansamy says Nonkonyana remains officially suspended by the national governing body and owes Safa a lot. “Unfortunately, he won’t stand a chance. He must first uplift his suspension. How he is going to do this, I don’t know. He owes Safa over R1 million in legal costs for the many cases he lost against Safa.” Govindansamy also says Jordaan enjoys a lot of support from the majority of regions. “Danny Jordaan has more than 75% support from general membership.” A national executive member in the Eastern Cape, who refused to be named, said Nonkonyana­ is not eligible to run for Safa president because he was expelled by the national body. The official said Nonkonyana is also struggling to get support in his province and region. “Chief is from the Eastern Cape and not a single region supports him here, including areas in the former Transkei, Alfred Nzo and OR Tambo. That is a fact and I’m not rubbishing him. He is not eligible and is not in good standing,” said the official. Safa regions will appoint new leadership on March 24. Another popular figure in SA soccer, who reportedly has shown an interest in challenging for the highly contested seat, is former Bafana Bafana, Kaizer Chiefs and Leeds United (English FA) captain Lucas Radebe. Nonkonyana was dismissed from his post as Safa vice-president in October 2014. The outspoken administrator was suspended by the association for comments made about the then Bafana Bafana coach Gordon Igesund in October 2013. Nonkonyana had suggested the coach should be fired if Bafana did not reach the final in the African Nations Championship in Cape Town in January 2014. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  