Ajay and Atul Gupta. (Muntu Vilakazi, City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gupta empire crumbles The net is finally closing around the Gupta family, members of which are now being pursued in earnest by the Hawks, with at least seven cases said to be at an "advanced stage" of investigation. Read more Zuma is here to stay, says Duarte ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte has insisted that President Jacob Zuma will only step down next year, despite calls for his immediate resignation. Read more Mangope's 'love child' seeks answers A 46-year-old woman has come forward with the startling claim that she is the lost love child of Bophuthatswana Bantustan leader Lucas Mangope. Read more Newsmaker: I'll fight for my integrity Former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu is ready to face any outcome of the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearings, including criminal charges. She says she is willing to fight to the bitter end to "preserve my integrity". Read more Cape Town gears up for Day Zero As Day Zero looms and Capetonians are urged to use less than 50 litres of water per person per day, residents are emptying shops’ shelves of 5l water containers to store in their garage and queuing at fresh water springs. Read more Zuma deserves humiliation In his first major interview as leader of the ANC, Cyril Ramaphosa was at pains to emphasise that President Jacob Zuma’s early exit should not be a humiliating experience. Read more Away with Afrikaans Popular participation is needed to defeat reactionary and undemocratic decisions by school governing bodies that yearn for apartheid, write Castro Ngobese and Sibane Mngadi. Read more Hugh Masekela: 'Bubbly and naughty' to the end Jazz legend Hugh Masekela will not be honoured with a state funeral because he expressly wished for a private burial attended only by family and friends. Read more 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  