(Picture: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – In case you missed it, here are some of the best and most popular stories from City Press on Sunday, 7 January. Ramaphosa wants power now ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa’s backers are planning for him to take over the reins in the next few weeks and have him deliver the state of the nation address in February. However, Ramaphosa has to reckon with the possibility that pushing Jacob Zuma out as president could cause divisions in the party and incur the wrath of Zuma’s KwaZulu-Natal support base. Officials close to Ramaphosa told City Press that the new ANC president was eager to occupy office and restore confidence in the country. READ FULL STORY  Zuma's fee-free higher education chaos Tertiary institutions are bracing themselves for chaos during registration, ahead of the re-opening of universities and public colleges for the 2018 academic year. The registration season begins this week at some institutions. Others follow suit later in the month. In addition to the confusion swirling around President Jacob Zuma’s surprise commitment to providing free higher education for poor and working-class students, there are now fears of upheavals after the Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) Student Command announced that it would lead a mass walk-in registration drive at campuses. READ MORE  Ace's bizarre poison claims Newly elected ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule has claimed that a key ally of his was poisoned and that he sought President Jacob Zuma’s help to get him to Russia for treatment. Magashule shocked mourners at the funeral of his homeboy, Free State head of the police, roads and transport department Sandile Msibi, in Parys this week with the revelations. He said North West premier Supra Mahumapelo accompanied him when they sought Zuma’s help. Msibi died a few days later. He was buried on Thursday, the day after he was to have been flown out of the country. READ FULL STORY  OPINION: Generational leap is the tonic Rumour has it that there was much celebration at old age homes throughout the country when the election results for the ANC’s leadership were announced in December. Ululating pensioners threw false teeth into the air and spun their wheelchairs in courtyards. Wrists were sprained as the oldies tried to do fist-bumps and high-fives. Walking sticks were thrown into piles and turned into bonfires. It was a good day for old people. The ANC had elected a leadership that was sufficiently aged. READ FULL COLUMN  Side Entry: Could the Proteas’ pace-heavy team be a sign of a new approach? Few decisions at the toss have sparked as much debate as Faf du Plessis opting to bat on the nearest thing to a green mamba wicket at Newlands since Australia were shot for 47 all out in 2011. The Proteas captain went to the toss packing heat after asking for four fast bowlers in Vernon Philander, Dale Steyn, Kagiso Rabada and Morné Morkel. But instead of releasing it, he left the oven door closed when it came to whether he’d like first use of a particularly saucy Newlands surface. SEE WHAT SIMNIKIWE XABANISA HAS TO SAY  The axe to fall on De Lille Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille could be gone from office as early as next Sunday – and what happens to her is out of her hands. The DA’s federal executive will meet on Sunday to consider its request to De Lille on why she should not resign as mayor and on her submission to this effect. This is the same structure which decided last month that De Lille should be placed on suspension, relating to party activities. Chairperson of the DA Federal Council James Selfe confirmed yesterday that the embattled mayor made her submissions to the party. These would be considered at the federal executive meeting. READ FULL STORY   - For more, VISIT THE CITY PRESS homepage  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  