Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lagos - Cameroonian paramilitaries have crossed into neighbouring Nigeria to conduct operations among citizens who have fled from Cameroon's restive anglophone regions, state sources said on Wednesday. The head of Cross River state emergency management agency, John Inaku, confirmed local press reports that gendarmes were in Danare village in the Boki area of the state early on Monday. "There were people coming in from the neighbouring country. It is not the first time. The first time was in (the district of) Ekang in December," he told AFP. A police source in the southeast Nigerian state said only: "Yes, it's true. There were men on the ground." Thousands of Cameroonians have fled to the remote region from violence in English-speaking southwest Cameroon, which abuts Nigeria. Paramilitaries came in from Cameroon, targeting suspected anglophone separatists among the influx, Nigerian media said on Wednesday. Cross River state security adviser Jude Ngaji was quoted as saying by The Punch newspaper: "The issue has gone beyond the police and the Nigerian Army has just deployed a battalion to the area." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Cameroon's government is fighting an insurgency by a group demanding a separate state for two regions that are home to most of the country's anglophones, who account for about a fifth of the population. On October 1 last year, the breakaway movement issued a symbolic declaration of independence for "Ambazonia," their name for the putative state. Cameroon's President Paul Biya has met the agitation with a crackdown, including curfews, raids and restrictions on travel. Around 30 000 people have fled into neighbouring Nigeria. Despite their military collaboration against Boko Haram Islamists in northeast Nigeria and northern Cameroon, the two countries have long had tense relations. For years, the neighbours staked claims to the oil-rich Bakassi peninsula until an International Court of Justice ruling ceded it to Cameroon in 2002. Nigeria is also facing an independence movement from pro-Biafran supporters in the southeast but Abuja has moved closer to Yaounde in recent weeks. On Monday, the head of the Ambazonia separatist movement, Sisiku Ayuk Tabe, who was arrested in the Nigerian capital in early January, was extradited with 46 of his supporters. Yaounde has called them "terrorists". Amnesty International has expressed concern about the fate of the arrested separatists, saying they could face torture and an unfair trial in Cameroon. Cameroon's communications minister. Issa Tchiroma Bakary. this week congratulated what he saw was the "excellent cooperation" between the two governments in terms of security. He also said both countries would "never allow their territory to act as bases for destabilising activities against the other". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  