Jan Bornman Phikolomzi Mjikelwa from St James Senior Secondary School in the Eastern Cape. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Phikolomzi Mjikelwa, who was one of the top matrics in mathematics and science in 2017, said one of his biggest goals in life is to never stop studying. Get your 2017 Matric results here Mjikelwa, 17, was the third best achiever in mathematics and science and the third best performer in quintile 3 schools. The third child of two teachers, Mjikelwa said he loved challenging himself, believing he was the smartest of his siblings. "I would like to believe I am the smartest of all of us," he said with a smile after the announcement of the 2017 matric results in Johannesburg on Thursday. SEE: The top matric achievers of 2017 Mjikelwa plans on studying actuarial science at the University of Cape Town this year. "I really love mathematics so much… and the second reason is I really want to challenge myself," he said. "In five years time, I want to be a qualified actuary. But it doesn’t stop there. I want to study for the rest of my life," he said. Mjikelwa, who matriculated from St James Senior Secondary School in Cofimvaba in the Eastern Cape, said the year was challenging for him after setting his goals. "Academically, at the beginning of the year, when you start having those big dreams, you start giving yourself to the work. But then you realise there’s a lot of work and not enough time," he said. INFOGRAPHIC: #MatricResults2017 at a glance During preparations for his exams in his matric year, Mjikelwa said he would often work until midnight or later and be up around 04:00 or 05:00. Despite this, he still found time to finally play football for his high school after years of playing volleyball. Mjikelwa believes that anyone can achieve the same results he did if they changed their mindsets and worked hard enough. Register with News24 to get your results as they become available, and if you're a 2017 matric you could also stand a chance to win R10 000 in cash. Simply tick the competition entry box on the sign-up page. To register, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  