Robyn Lucas PHOTO: Facebook Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Starving
siblings who were held captive by their parents have been rescued after their
brave sister’s bold escape led the police to their property. Several
brothers and sisters were found chained to their beds in filthy living
conditions on Sunday, according to the Daily Mail. A
17-year-old girl, who was so small and emaciated the police believed she was
10, called 911 after escaping her family home in the city of Perris, California.
Once police interviewed the desperate teenager, they rushed to her suburban
house where they found her malnourished siblings. “Further
investigation revealed several children shackled to their beds with chains and
padlocks in dark and foul-smelling surroundings,” the Riverside County Sheriff’s department
wrote on its Facebook page. “But the
parents were unable to immediately provide a logical reason why their children
were restrained in that manner.” The siblings
were taken to hospital after being interviewed at their local police station,
reports Metro News. Cops were shocked to find that
seven of them were adults. The siblings range from two to 29 years old. Their
parents, David Allen (57) and Louise Anna Turpin (49), face charges of torture
and child endangerment and are held on $9 million (R108 million) bail
each. The married
couple filed for bankruptcy in 2011 and were up to more than R6 million in debt
despite David’s well-paying engineering job, according to The New York Times. Andrew
Santillan, who lives around the corner from the family, says he was stunned
when he heard the news of the arrests. “I had no idea this was going on,” he
said.  Another
neighbour, Wendy Martinez (41), who lives in the house behind the single-storey
property, told the Daily Mail she saw four of the children
kneeling in front of the house in October last year, looking emaciated and
pale. “They were
on their knees, four little kids, and they were just rolling on the grass. It
was odd at that time of night,” Wendy says. “Their
mother was in the archway, I just remember the mother in the archway, and I
said, ‘Hi.’  “There was
like no movement, not even to look over to see who’s saying hi, like if they
were told not to speak to anybody.” The Turpins
are set to appear in court on Thursday. Sources: dailymail.co.uk, metro.co.uk, buzzfeed.com   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  