(iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Inside the confidential City of Cape Town report, a US military satellite referred to by the code name 'Zuma' is missing; and Kagiso Rabada has become the No 1 ranked bowler in the ICC Test player rankings. Have a look at some of our top stories: ALERT: Warning of flooding and hail as thunderstorms hit northern provincesTemperatures will finally cool down for the  northern and eastern provinces on Wednesday 10 January, but the western parts of the country will heat up to the beyond the mid-thirties.  Rabada surges to summit of Test rankings!Kagiso Rabada has become the No 1 ranked bowler in the ICC Test player rankings after helping South Africa to victory over India at Newlands. It's not a matter of if, but when Zuma goes - NEC sourcesIt is now up to President Jacob Zuma to decide whether he wants a "messy" exit that could see him consigned to the "dustbin of history" without presidential benefits, or a "dignified exit" where he steps down voluntarily.H&M withdraws 'monkey' hoodie after black child ad outrageH&M says it has withdrawn from sale a green hoodie with the inscription "coolest monkey in the jungle" after an ad featuring a black child triggered racism accusations.  Intimidation and cover-ups: Inside the confidential City of Cape Town reportA confidential report by independent investigators, into claims of covered up irregularities allegedly by City of Cape Town officials, including Mayor Patricia de Lille, has exposed just how badly relationships have deteriorated due to finger pointing and accusations.  Agri SA lambasts police for inaccurate reporting on farm worker murderAgri SA has lashed out at the police for reporting inaccurate details to the media around the brutal shooting of a farm worker in Krugersdorp, Johannesburg.Train crash leaves more than 200 injuredA train crash at the Geldenhuys train station in Germiston, left more than 200 commuters moderately injured on Tuesday morning, ER24 has confirmed.   Tubby Reddy vows to fight SASCOC sackingSacked South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (SASCOC) CEO Tubby Reddy has vowed to fight the decision, saying he wasn't given an opportunity to defend himself. The 'Zuma' satellite is now missingA US military satellite referred to by the code name 'Zuma' and launched by Elon Musk’s Space Exploration Technologies, appears to have crashed into the sea. WATCH: Taxi rolls into oncoming traffic, collides with two vehiclesA taxi swerved and rolled into oncoming traffic on Jakes Gerwel Drive in Mitchells Plain in Cape Town, colliding with two other vehicles. The moment was caught on a dash-cam. Watch.   *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  