Emmerson Mnangagwa (File: AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Davos – Zimbabwe's new leader Emmerson Mnangagwa has said
that his predecessor, former president Robert Mugabe, will be left to live "in
peace" with a "very lucrative" package. Mnangagwa said this while answering a question relating to
the immunity status of former first lady Grace Mugabe during an interview in
Davos, Switzerland where he was attending the World Economic Forum. "…No. We have not given
anybody any immunity. What I promised to my former president and the founding
father of our nation, President Mugabe, is that first we give him a package — a
very lucrative package," Mnangagwa said. Watch the interview below. A BBC report said that many
in Zimbabwe were hoping that Mugabe and his family, "who became known for their
extravagant lifestyles, would be held to account for their actions". Mugabe, 93, was thrown out
of power in November after a shock military takeover. The nonagenarian had been
at the helm of the country for 37 years. Mnangagwa, who took the oath
of office on November 24, also spoke – during the interview – about a looming
vote, which he said was likely to be held before July. He vowed that the elections
would be fair and credible. "Next
month I will be able to make a proclamation of elections, so I believe that
elections will not be in July, they will be earlier than July," Mnangagwa
said. "We want to have free, fair,
credible elections, free of violence," he said, adding he would welcome
international observers. 'Zimbabwe is now open for business' "If you have that criteria,
why would you want to deny international observers coming into our country? The
EU... I would welcome them," he said. Mnangagwa also made it
clear that Zimbabwe was now open for business, adding that he would welcome US
President Donald Trump to build a golf course in his country, despite Trump reportedly dismissing African nations as
"shitholes". "If President Trump came here today when I am still around I
would... say: 'Oh, Mr President, Zimbabwe is open for business'," he said. "I know Americans like to play
golf - come and build golf courses... build hotels, I will give you
incentives," he added. "We are open and we want to catch up with the
rest of the region." Mnangagwa was replying to a question about reported remarks
by Trump earlier this month in which the US president allegedly complained
about opening borders to immigrants from "shithole countries". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  