Makazole Mapimpi (Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu will finally testify at the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearings this week. Watch. 
WATCH Cape Town - President Jacob Zuma releases his diary amid expectations that he will exit office; Cheetahs coach Rory Duncan full of praise for centre Nico Lee after a win over the Southern Kings; and We take a closer look at Princess Eugenie’s fiancé – Jack Brooksbank. Here is a roundup of some of our top stories for the day: Zille asks Zuma to declare national disaster, as Day Zero looms for Cape Town Western Cape Premier Helen Zille on Monday said that she had written to President Jacob Zuma for a national disaster to be declared after the likelihood of Day Zero was confirmed by the City of Cape Town. Nothing 'sinister' about my decision, Dlamini tells Sassa debacle inquiry Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini maintains that there was nothing "sinister or inappropriate" about her decision to make the "workstream" leaders report directly to her. Zuma releases his diary amid expectation that he will exit office President Jacob Zuma has released his planned engagements until mid-February, amid heightened speculation that he could quit. Cheetahs coach: Lee one of SA’s best centres Cheetahs coach Rory Duncan was full of praise for centre Nico Lee following last Saturday’s PRO14 win over the Southern Kings in Bloemfontein. There is no decision that Zuma must go – Magashule The ANC has not taken a decision that President Jacob Zuma must step down as head of state, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule said on Monday. Weah sworn in as Liberian president, completes historic transition Former international football star George Weah was sworn in as Liberia's new president on Monday, in the country's first transition between democratically-elected leaders since 1944. Rand flirts with R12/$ on new Eskom board, Zuma exit talk The rand firmed more than 1% on Monday as the market digested news of the new Eskom board and reports that the ANC’s Top 6 are discussing the exit of President Jacob Zuma. Life Esidimeni: Mahlangu shifts blame, apology rejected by families Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu told the panel at the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearings on Monday that she also did not know that there were challenges with the marathon project of moving patients to other non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The risks that senior public sector managers face daily at the hands of senior politicians. #QedaniMahlangu throwing a whole lot of them under a low suspension bus!  Twitter reacts to SABC anchor's slip of the tongue Twitter users were in stitches after SABC anchor Peter Ndoro mistakenly declared politician Mangosuthu Buthelezi as dead – moments before interviewing him. It was my fault entirely. It happens sometimes you think about another person as you want to say someone else’s name. I only realised afterwards what I had done. I’m sure it has happened to us all. Being human is not an exact science. An honest slip of the mind. Sorry. ???? https://t.co/Z1X3Fl8La1  5 things you didn't know about Princess Eugenie's fiancé Now that we can all look forward to another royal wedding this year, let’s take a closer look at Princess Eugenie’s fiancé – Jack Brooksbank.  PHOTO: Getty Images/Gallo Images  Zim white farmer 'seeks Mnangagwa govt assistance to get back farm' – report A Zimbabwean white farmer Richard Seager is reportedly seeking President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government to assist him to get back his 609 hectare farm that was seized from him in 2007 by an indigenous farmer. Barry returns to Stormers, Mapimpi joins Sharks Wings Craig Barry and Makazole Mapimpi played their final match for the Cheetahs in their 45-24 PRO14 win over the Southern Kings in Bloemfontein this past weekend. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  