Zimbabwe's main opposition leader hints at stepping aside Harare - Zimbabwe's main opposition leader on Monday dropped the biggest hint yet he could step down from his party, setting the stage for an election scenario not witnessed since 2002. Morgan Tsvangirai, who is battling colon cancer, has led the MDC-T party since its formation in 1999. A popular figure, he became prime minister between 2009 and 2013 in a unity government after he beat then-President Robert Mugabe in a 2008 election but without enough votes to avoid a second round. For more on this story click here  Zim soldiers were promised money, gold to oust Mugabe: nephew Harare - Robert Mugabe’s nephew has claimed that Zimbabwean soldiers were told they could keep any cash, gold or diamonds they found during the military takeover in November. Patrick Zhuwao, writing in an editorial on the private NewZimbabwe website, said after the riches failed to materialise the soldiers had become part of a growing resistance movement, which he dubbed #2018Resistance, loyal to the ousted president. “The military personnel that engaged in the illegal, unconstitutional and treasonous Operation Restore Legacy were authorised to keep… whatever money, gold and diamonds that they came across,” Zhuwao said. Read more on this story here  Zanu-PF 'faces defeat in 2018 polls... many still support my uncle Mugabe', says nephew Harare - Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party faces defeat in 2018 polls because many of its members still support ousted president, Robert Mugabe, his nephew has claimed. Patrick Zhuwao, writing in an opinion editorial published over the weekend, said “coup conspirators” and “terrorists” had wrested power from Mugabe, who represented the interests of the country’s majority – the youth. “There is massive disgruntlement by members of Zanu-PF to the manner in which President Robert Gabriel Mugabe continues to be humiliated and ill-treated by the coup conspirators and terrorist junta,” Zhuwao wrote on the New Zimbabwe news website. For more on this story click here  PICS: Grace Mugabe heckler dies in car crash, reports say Harare – Zanu-PF youth leader Magura Charumbira, who made headlines in November after he booed former first lady Grace Mugabe during a Bulawayo interface rally has reportedly died. According to New Zimbabwe.com, officials confirmed that Charumbira died on Monday morning "after his car crashed into a stationary lorry along the Harare-Bulawayo road near Norton", 40km outside the capital. A Chronicle report said that Charumbira was on his way to Harare when the accident occurred. For more on this story click here  Zim investigates Grace Mugabe's doctorate amid allegations she didn't study Harare - Zimbabwe's anti-corruption commission says it is probing the circumstances surrounding the controversial awarding of a doctorate to former first lady Grace Mugabe. Mugabe, whose husband resigned in November under pressure from the military and ruling party, received a doctorate from the University of Zimbabwe in 2014 amid allegations she did not study for it. Former president Robert Mugabe was chancellor of the university. Read more on this story here  Angolan leader denies tensions with predecessor despite clean-up campaign Luanda-  Angolan President Joao Lourenco on Monday denied "any tension" with his long-serving predecessor Jose Eduardo dos Santos, many of whose relatives and friends he has sacked from public office in a fight against corruption in the oil-rich southern African nation. In November, within three months of taking control of Angola, Lourenco sacked dos Santos's daughter - Africa's richest woman - as head of the state-run oil company Sonangol. In recent weeks, he has fired a string of other business figures closely associated with his predecessor. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  