Nation Nyoka Timera Naidoo. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - KwaZulu-Natal student Timera Naidoo says that learners need to work hard and have faith in what they can achieve. - TO SEE YOUR RESULTS CLICK HERE "Don’t stop believing in yourself… you will come across challenges and want to give up, but just persevere and keep on going," she said. Naidoo was awarded top achiever in Physical Science in the country and second in quintile 4 in Johannesburg on Thursday. Here are the top matric achievers of 2017 She forms part of the high number of female learners who achieved top results. According to Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga, 65 007 more women enrolled for the exams. 217 387 women passed the exams, bringing the total pass number to 73.4% for women. Naidoo encouraged incoming matriculants to try to study in quiet places, away from distractions.  "Even if you sleep during the day and study at night when like people aren’t around the house…that’s usually better to like concentrate and keep focus," she said. Naidoo said she had no idea she would win the award, but was now looking forward to seeing her full marks when results are released on Friday. "I expect all A’s but other than that, I have no idea," she said. - Share your study dreams with us The Port Shepstone Secondary School learner thanked her school and teachers for their help in her academic success.  Her parents were very happy with her, she said, adding that they had also motivated her to work hard. "I was [also] motivated by wanting to get a place in university and wanting to fulfil my dream of becoming a doctor one day and serving my community," she said. Naidoo said she had applied to the University of KwaZulu-Natal where she has not been accepted yet, as well as Stellenbosch University where she has been accepted to study towards a medical degree.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  