Oprah Winfrey. (AP File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – SABC comes clean on R149 000 payment in Bathabile Dlamini interview, the NPA is challenging a court ruling over Shaun Abrahams' appointment and be alert of these five diseases you could contract if we run out of water. Here is a roundup of some of our top stories for the day: SABC breached its own editorial policies over paid Bathabile Dlamini interview The board of the SABC has determined that the broadcaster breached its own policies and practices over a paid interview with Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini, and would not be accepting the money. Water crisis: De Lille's powers limited, tariffs to be introduced The City of Cape Town has voted to both limit mayor Patricia De Lille's powers to handle the drought crisis, and to introduce punitive tariff measures for residents. The Constitution on trial: Hoërskool Overvaal Beyond being the blueprint for South Africa’s collective hopes for an improved society, marking a decisive break from the past, the Constitution is also a peace treaty, writes Phephelaphi Dube. WATCH: Oprah is the 'dancing queen' we all need! There’s a behind-the-scenes video of Oprah doing a photo shoot for The Oprah Magazine and it will literally take your worries away.  Ending our week like our dancing queen @oprah ???????????? (????: @jznotthatjayz) A post shared by  O, The Oprah Magazine (@oprahmagazine) on Jan 14, 2018 at 4:34pm PST  NPA approaches ConCourt to challenge ruling that Shaun Abrahams's appointment was invalid The NPA has filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court against a North Gauteng High Court ruling that its head Shaun Abrahams's appointment was invalid. AB in the form of his life Proteas middle-order batsman AB de Villiers says that he has never felt better on or off the cricket field than he does right now. Tubby Reddy's last chance to save his job? A national inquiry by the Department of Sport and Recreation into alleged maladministration at the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee could be Tubby Reddy's last chance to save his job. Roy Bennett 'suffered a lot in his attempt to build a new Zimbabwe' Roy Bennett’s unexpected death in a helicopter crash in the US as has been described as "a big loss to the country's democratic struggle".  5 diseases you risk getting if we run out of water As Day Zero rapidly approaches for Capetonians, Health24 takes a look at five diseases that might become more of a risk of during a drought. Siam Lee, sex workers and the culture of victim blaming Siam Lee’s story has been dominating the headlines over the last two weeks. Like so many other victims of sexual assault and violent crimes, the story often has a tragic ending. It was no different with Siam Lee. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  