 Donald Trump. (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Africans woke up on Friday to find President Donald Trump had finally taken an interest in their continent. It wasn't what people had hoped for. Using vulgar language, Trump on Thursday questioned why the US would accept more immigrants from Haiti and "shithole countries" in Africa rather than places like Norway in rejecting a bipartisan immigration deal. African governments quickly found themselves in an awkward position. As top recipients of US aid, some hesitated to jeopardise it by criticising Trump, especially as his administration has sought to slash foreign assistance. "Unless it was specifically said about South Sudan, we have nothing to say," South Sudan government spokesperson Ateny Wek Ateny said. African media outlets and the continent's young, increasingly connected population were being less shy. Beautiful continent  "Casual Friday at the White House is soon to include hoods and tiki torches at this rate," South African media outlet Daily Maverick wrote. Many on the world's second most populous continent reached for their smartphones, long-practiced in defending the vast and varied region from easy stereotypes. While 40 percent of the world's poor live in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the International Monetary Fund, the region also has billionaires, reality shows and a growing middle class. Some quickly decided to own Trump's vulgar language or throw it back in his face. "Good morning from the greatest most beautiful 'shithole country' in the world!!!" South African Broadcasting Corporation anchor Leanne Manas tweeted. "As someone from South Shithole, Trevor is deeply offended by the president's remarks," The Daily Show tweeted of its South African-born host, Trevor Noah. In Kenya, East Africa's economic hub, political activist Boniface Mwangi pleaded: "Please don't confuse the #shithole leaders we Africans elect with our beautiful continent."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  