Unathi Obose Siyanda Bhenge carries his bucket of water to the toilet.PHOTO: Unathi Obose Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Khayelitsha’s Endlovini shack dwellers are threatening to take to the streets if the City of Cape Town fails to speed up service delivery in the area. They say it has been a long time since they were promised flushing toilets, a move away from the night soil system. Nomakorinte Magaba said: “It’s almost two decades now since we have been using these toilets, without running water. When we are going to the toilet, we must carry a bucket of water to flush them.” She said she has been staying in the area for 14 years and has been using the same toilets. “Our councillors came and go and they have done nothing about them. Even the current councillor knows about the situation, but he is doing nothing,” she protested. Magaba,40, also demanded the city to add extra communal toilets because there is an influx of people coming into the area. “There is even a shortage of toilets. You’ll find that one toilet is used by 10 families. And you can imagine, maybe one family has about eight other six family members. Some residents lock their toilets because they don’t want to share them, which forces others to relieve themselves in the bush,” she said. Magaba added that some residents had to build their own toilets to avoid fighting or going to the bush. Sizwe Ntshwaxu,48, has threatened to take their grievances to the streets. “In this country if you want government to listen to you, you must protest. That is the only language that our government understands. The corruption that is happening to national government now is coming down to provincial government. Both governments (national and provincial) are the same. As citizens of this country we have a right to have a shelter, clean water and education. But you will notice that all those three things our government struggle to provide,” said Ntshwaxu. He urged political parties to stop playing race cards and focusing on developing the so called disadvantage areas. “Poverty has no race. However, he said that one day they will bring the City of Cape Town to a standstill. “Our provincial government takes us for granted sometimes. As informal settlement dwellers in the province we need to mobilize each other and go to the mayor’s office in numbers. That is when they will listen to us and speed up service delivery in our areas. M-Section chairperson Yola Joxo confirmed that the water is not connected to the toilets. “That is true. I arrived here in 2010 and the toilets were not connected water for flushing. And when I asked about that no one knew about it. And there is nothing that shows one day the city will connect them,” she said. Joxo said people ended up erecting their own toilets to avoid fighting. “I think we have about 800 toilets to more than 10 000 people in Ndlovini area because each block has about 10 toilets,” she explained. Ward councillor Anele Gabuza acknowledged the problem and blames shoddy work that was done by the city. “The people who were building those toilets didn’t finish them but I’m busy working on that. But as for now we are working on a new project just next to Ndlovini which is phase 1. Our plan is to relocate people to the new area so that they can access better services,” said Gabuza. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  