Alex Mitchley Ekangala stadium in Tshwane that was severely damaged by a storm on Monday evening. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria – The Ekangala Stadium, which was already on the verge of total dereliction, received a further thrashing from a severe storm on Monday evening. Visiting the stadium on Tuesday, Tshwane MMC for community and social development services Ntsiki Mokhotho said large sections of the roof was severely damaged. Some sections had blown off, damaging other parts of the stadium structure in the process. Mokhotho said in a statement that the initial evaluation indicated that the dilapidated state of the stadium required upgrading, and that the stadium was included into a portfolio for facilities that underwent professional conditional assessment by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to develop a turn-around facilities' maintenance strategic plan for ten years. "According to the CSIR's report, the condition of the building overall was at 70% (a fair condition), but the site works overall was assessed at 30% (a bad condition)," said Mokhotho. Prolonged lack of maintenance "It indicated that the main causes of the deterioration [were] the prolonged lack of maintenance, malicious damage to the property, and normal wear and tear." The initial cost to bring the stadium back to life was around R4.89 million but after the damaged inflicted on Monday evening, the restoration is likely to exceed the anticipated cost, said Mokhotho. "I will request that the department conducts a thorough and professional assessment of the damage and the current state of the facility, which will inform the budget allocation process and the best way forward." The Ekangala stadium forms part of the stadium facilities, inherited after the merger process in 2011 that saw the former Metsweding District Municipality, which included the Kungwini Local Municipality within which Ekangala was situated, merged with the City of Tshwane.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  