Pam Magwaza PHOTO: Anele Mxakaza Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former Idols SA contestants Neliswa and Anele Mxakaza have
finally spoken out against their former pastor, Timothy Omotoso. Last year the Nigerian-born pastor made headlines after he
was charged for human trafficking and rape. The senior pastor of the Jesus Dominion International Church
was accused of keeping young female congregants of his church in a house in
Umhlanga in Durban and sexually assaulting them. During his court case early last year, Neliswa and Anele –
who were members of his church and lived with him – came out in his defence and
even claimed they loved him. Now the twins have issued a statement and revealed they
always knew about the abuse that went on in the house in Umhlanga. "We have lived in his house in Umhlanga for about a
year, it was the worst experience ever," they said. "We were actually pushed to please the man, we were
told that God will punish us if we ever say anything against [Pastor] Omotoso.
We lived a life full of threats and fear." Sexual comments Speaking to DRUM, Anele Mxakaza clarified that she and her
sister were not sexually assaulted by the pastor, but that he would make sexual
comments directed at them. "He would make comments about certain parts of our
bodies in front of all the other girls. He would also ask us personal questions
about whether we're having sex with our boyfriends." She added that this made them very uncomfortable, which is
why they eventually decided to leave the house because they feared they would
eventually be assaulted. "We were made to believe Omotoso is the closest person
to God and we can never have a relationship with God but only through Omotoso,"
the statement further read. They added that they believe their spirits were controlled
by the pastor and they could see all the wrongs, but were never bold enough to
speak out. "We were even asked to go do newspaper interviews to
protect Omotoso," they said in the statement. Speaking about the abuse they faced in the pastor's house,
the twins said they saw everything that happened to all those women who've
spoken out against the alleged rapist. Rape allegations "The rape allegations were not new to us when Omotoso
was arrested – it's something we knew long before he got arrested. "The girls would talk immediately after it happened in
the house and when one was called to the upper room we knew what was going to
happen to them, we were made to keep quiet and never say anything. "Even when we had left the church we were still not
free to talk, we were afraid something bad will happen to us or our families,"
they said. Attorney comment Omotoso's newly appointed attorney Peter Daubermann said
that he is unsure how these allegations by the twins will affect the case at
this point. "We have not heard anything about these new allegations
yet, so it is too soon to tell how it will affect our case moving forward,"
he told DRUM. NPA communications manager Tsepo Ndwalaza was not
immediately available for comment. The twins were contestants on season 9 of Idols SA. According to News24, Omotoso and one of his co-accused
appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Monday. The case was postponed to March 7 because a third accused
wasn't present. The pastor is accused of trafficking more than 30 girls and
women who were from various branches of his church. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  