Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu is back in the hot seat answering tough questions on the Life Esidimeni tragedy which led to the deaths of at least 143 vulnerable patients.  - For the latest updates follow News24 reporter Jeanette Chabalala: @J_chabalala  WATCH LIVE: (Courtesy of SABC)  Jump to
                    bottom Crouse: "No, I'm not talking about 'we', I'm talking about you... you're the politician, you must give guidance." Mahlangu: "No, this is 'we', there is no 'you', there is no decision that is made by one person because if the Department of Health is run by Qedani, then it will be a disaster." Mahlangu: "The point I'm making is there is no politician who individually can say 'This must happen' and everything else happens tomorrow. Things are not individualised in government, it's a team, yes led by a politician, but it's a team of people, from the politician to a cleaner to a clerk and everybody else." Mahlangu: "That's part of the process and it depends where a decision needs to be made and taken by who..."  Moseneke reprimands Mahlangu for throwing documents at her lawyers from where she's sitting, saying it's "unacceptable". Mahlangu says she's not familiar with this setup and apologises. Moseneke tells her there are ushers available for that, she just needs to raise her hand, even if she needs water.  Crouse asks Mahlangu to point out in her budget speech the part where she spoke about upscaling NGOs. Mahlangu asks if she wants her to "take an hour" going through this - "You are being unfair counsel," Mahlangu says. Crouse then tells Mahlangu there is nothing in the speeches dealing with NGOs. Mahlangu: "So I am being misled. Counsel is misleading me." Moseneke intervenes, and gets the questioning back on track.  The hearing resumes, and Moseneke reminds Mahlangu that she is still under her previous oath.  The hearing adjourns for a short break.  Mahlangu once again reiterates that the decisions were all "collective decisions" and she cannot be expected to answer personally.  Crouse: "Maybe if you could just stop fiddling, and listen to my question..." Mahlangu: "I'm listening to you counsel, I am!"  Mahlangu says there were no proper financial processes at Life Esidimeni until her department stepped in, in the 2015/16 financial year. Moseneke asks if the department was making progress in reducing expenditure, and Mahlangu says yes, from the time they started taking a closer look in the 2015/16 year. Moseneke then asks if they were doing such good work in bringing down costs, why did they then proceed with the marathon project which saw the cancellation of the Life Esidimeni project. Mahlangu: "We didn't anticipate the outcome...Hindsight always helps you to think about what you could've done better."  Crouse: "Did you ask for a cost analysis to be done?" Mahlangu: "I think they did it, I'm not sure." Crouse emphasises that Mahlangu is not answering her question - she wants to know if Mahlangu herself asked for a cost analysis to be done. Mahlangu skirts around the question, and Moseneke steps in. Mahlangu refers to some documents.  Crouse addressing Mahlangu on the Life Esidimeni decision as a cost-cutting exercise, saying that it would've cost more per patient at some hospitals, defeating the purpose. Mahlangu not really giving a direct response. "I don't know how much money was saved, because I'm no longer in the system."  Mahlangu: "If I knew the risk I would have taken it to the National Health Council... If I could turn back the clock, I would."  Crouse: "Should somebody not have advised you on this?...There is a statutory body, that the Minister of Health thinks is a relevant body to assist, and you didn't seek its assistance." Mahlangu: "Because I was not aware of the problems, which finally came into result into what we are dealing with today."  Crouse: "Was the closure of Life Esidimeni ever discussed?" Mahlangu: "No it wasn't." Crouse: "And should it not have been discussed?" Mahlangu: "No, I don't think so."  Mahlangu is asked who chairs the council... "It is the MEC, it's me," she responds.  Mahlangu says the decision to terminate the Life Esidimeni contract was a cost containment measure, and not an executive decision. Mahlangu: "Ever since I've been in the executive council, contractual matters have never been presented to the council..."  Mahlangu has since switched back to English in all her responses, while the interpreter is still seated next to her.  Crouse asks Mahlangu if the Life Esidimeni decision had legal consequences. Mahlangu to Crouse: "I don't understand the question, I'm not a lawyer." Moseneke explains the question in simpler terms to Mahlangu, who then concedes that yes, there were legal consequences.  Moseneke addresses Mahlangu directly to try and make her understand that she has to answer all questions, and simply can't refuse to answer anything. She either has to answer yes, or no, with an explanation where needed, and if she doesn't remember something, she should say so. Moseneke wants to speed up what he "hopes" could be Mahlangu's last day at the hearing. "I hope so too," Mahlangu responds.  Mahlangu: "I feel I am being constrained, and I feel I am being asked questions that are beyond my role as a politician."  Mahlangu: "I find myself in a difficult situation. The questions I am being asked are very technical and there's no politician in SA that can understand exactly what happens in their department."  Mahlangu is now addressing the hearing in Zulu, with the help of an interpreter.  Mahlangu now says she wants to answer questions in Zulu. Bit of a delay as an interpreter is organised. Mahlangu's lawyer takes the opportunity to defend his client, saying she should be allowed to fully answer her questions without being interrupted.  Mahlangu asked why she went to campaign for the ANC while people were dying. Mahlangu: "I didn't know people were dying. I was relying on communication from my HOD."  Mahlangu tells Crouse not to shout at her.  Mahlangu: "I cannot carry personal blame, I was not working for my personal self. However, I carry the political blame simply because of the position I held at the time." Advocate Crouse once again insists on just a "yes" or "no" answer.  "Is there anything for which you will carry blame?" Moseneke asks Mahlangu. Mahlangu once again repeats that she has taken "political responsibility", after she realised that a lot went wrong. "That's the blame I am taking."  Advocate Lilla Crouse questions Mahlangu about the emails she claims not to have seen.  Crouse asks if Mahlangu has read emails from Levy Mosenogi, the head of the project which saw 143 #LifeEsidimeni patients die. Mahlangu says she doesn't remember the email. @TeamNews24 #LifeEsidimeni: Adv Lilla Crouse, for Legal Aid is now cross-examining Mahlangu. @TeamNews24 Day 3: Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu is back in the hot seat at the #LifeEsidimeni Arbitration hearing. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/b5kwACqlEO ICYMI: #LifeEsidimeni: I was not aware patients were dying, says Mahlangu Former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu has told the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing that she was never aware that patients were dying. "If I was made aware...we would not be sitting here today. That I can assure you," she said during her second day of testimony in Parktown, Johannesburg, on Wednesday. Mahlangu, who often struggled to answer questions, shifted the blame onto her subordinates. She said that had she been aware, she would have done her best to ensure that patients who were moved from Life Esidimeni facilities were placed in well-equipped NGOs. She pleaded with former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke to answer some of the questions directed at her on Thursday, in order to "refresh" her memory.  ICYMI: Cancelling Life Esidimeni project was not wrong, says Mahlangu Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu says she believes that the decision to cancel the Life Esidimeni contract was not wrong. "What went wrong is the implementation or the execution of the project," she said on Wednesday. Mahlangu was testifying during her second day at the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing in Parktown, Johannesburg. She told the hearing that she accepted that she had a political responsibility to protect the patients from harm. She said she also accepted that the department's conduct was inconsistent with the Constitution and the law.  ICYMI: Life Esidimeni: 'I am a warm person,' says Mahlangu Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu says she considers herself a "warm" person and does not understand why some officials claimed they were afraid of her. This, after former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke told Mahlangu that Levy Mosenogi, the head of the project which led to the death of 143 Life Esidimeni patients, claimed that he was scared of her. "I don't know why all of a sudden they would be scared of me... I know myself to be a very warm person," Mahlangu said during her second day of her testimony at the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing in Johannesburg on Wednesday. When Mahlangu described herself as warm, some members of the public in the crowd responded with disbelief and said she was dishonest. Mosenogi was not the only official who claimed to fear Mahlangu.  ICYMI: Mahlangu implicates Premier Makhura in Life Esidimeni decision - DA Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu has implicated Premier David Makhura in the decision to cancel the Life Esidimeni contract and send mental health patients to unsuitable NGOs, the DA said on Tuesday. In her testimony at the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing, Mahlangu said Makhura was part of the budget committee meeting which cut the Esidimeni contract as a cost-saving measure, DA MPL Jack Bloom said in a statement. Mahlangu was in the hot seat on Monday after she was called to testify at the hearing. She testified about a meeting with the premier and Nehawu in November 2015 concerning workers who would be retrenched because of the cancellation of the Life Esidimeni contract.  ICYMI: 'These NGOs are dishonest', Qedani Mahlangu said in Life Esidimeni email Former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu has been accused of withholding the truth from the provincial legislature regarding the challenges being faced by NGOs after she was alerted of the challenges ahead of her appearance before the legislature. As the Life Esidimeni saga was unfolding, Mahlangu initially reported to the legislature that she had only received one complaint about an inadequate NGO, despite receiving a complaint from Section 27 and the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) about the state of the Precious Angels facility. "At the time, I was made to believe that the information was correct and in the absence [of more information], I could not have answered [the legislature] differently," she told the Life Esidimeni hearings on Monday. Mahlangu said she believed that things were going well at the facilities because the head of department (HOD), Dr Barney Selebano, and former health head Makgabo Manamela, who informed her of all the processes regarding the NGOs, had not alerted her of any challenges before she provided answers to the legislature's health committee.  Jump to
                top