Grace Mugabe (Picture: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Only a minority of Zimbabweans disliked Grace Mugabe and the
military intervention that saw her expelled from the ruling party has reduced
Zimbabwe to a "banana republic", a former cabinet minister has said. Jonathan Moyo said it was "unprofessional" for the army led
by Constantino Chiwenga to intervene in November just because they didn’t like
the former first lady. Also read: WATCH: 'I left Zimbabwe with the help of angels', former Grace Mugabe
ally tells BBC "The fact that some people, who may in fact be a minority,
may have issues with Doctor Grace Mugabe does not mean it is a crime to support
her," Moyo said in a BBC HARDtalk interview on Thursday. "You do not prevent an election through a military coup
simply arguing that you do not like Grace Mugabe. It's unprofessional for an
army to do that," he added. Watch the video below as Moyo speaks during the interview  Moyo was a key member of the G40 faction that, until
November 15, had the upper hand within the ruling Zanu-PF party. Grace Mugabe
looked certain to become one of the country’s two vice presidents following the
sacking on November 6 of Emmerson Mnangagwa, who led a rival faction. 'A banana republic' But the military takeover saw the expulsion from Zanu-PF of
Grace Mugabe, Moyo and others linked to her. Mnangagwa replaced Mugabe as
president. Moyo said the army intervention had reduced Zimbabwe to a "banana republic". "Zimbabwe's army under Chiwenga has joined the ranks of
banana republics where military individuals intervene because they don’t like
this individual, or they like that individual," he said. Chiwenga retired as defence forces commander last month, but
was swiftly promoted to vice president. He is also the minister of defence. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  