The python that devoured the dog. (Frikkie Venter via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Robert Mugabe 'never made mistakes', says Zim President Mnangagwa; SA sends solitary athlete to Winter Games and watch a 12-year-old busker who sounds just like Adele. These are some of our top headlines: Naspers won't renew contract with Gupta-linked ANN7Naspers’ MultiChoice has decided to rid itself of Gupta-linked ANN7, after an internal investigation found that the media company made critical mistakes.ANC withdraws motion of no confidence in De LilleThe ANC in Cape Town has officially withdrawn its motion of no confidence in Mayor Patricia de Lille, while the DA has tabled its own motion in the council. Woman devastated after 50kg python slithers into her lounge and eats her dog"She was suddenly woken up in the early hours of the morning when she heard her dog whining when the snake bit him." Magashule and daughter in money-for-jam property scandalControversial ANC secretary general and Free State Premier Ace Magashule is implicated in a dodgy property deal with the Free State Development Corporation that saw his long-lost daughter score R9 million for doing nothing.News24 has obtained video footage of Magashule and a group of men, including two FDC board members, inspecting this property in 2014. They were joined by a young woman who appears to be Malembe. #EskomInquiry: Martins opens up on Tony Gupta, Waterkloof saga and Suzanne DanielsDeputy Minister of Public Enterprises Ben Martins is not friends with Tony Gupta, the Eskom Inquiry heard.Opposition parties pile on pressure for Zuma to go... SONA rather than laterPressure for President Jacob Zuma to step down is mounting, with the DA seeking to postpone the State of the Nation Address and the EFF calling for a motion of no confidence in his leadership to be debated.Mugabe 'never made mistakes', says Zim President MnangagwaTwo months after pushing aside his former boss in a military takeover, Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa still carefully maintains that Robert Mugabe made no mistakes while he was in power.WATCH: This 12-year-old busker sounds just like AdeleTween Irish busker Allie Sherlock performed on the Ellen Degeneres show and we were amazed by how much she sounds like Adele.  SA sends solitary athlete to Winter GamesConnor Wilson will represent South Africa at the 2018 Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang, South Korea in February.Zille asks Mokonyane for urgent resolution to water crisisWestern Cape Premier Helen Zille has asked Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane for an urgent resolution to the water crisis and for a joint task team to work under the minister's leadership. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  