Grace Mugabe 'supported her ageing husband's decision to
resign', says former aide Harare – Former Zimbabwean first lady Grace Mugabe supported
her ageing husband's "decision to resign", Robert Mugabe's former
spokesperson George Charamba has reportedly revealed. Reports indicated that Grace
had previously held her own presidential ambitions, as she
reportedly led a campaign to get the then vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa
out. She was a key figure of the G40 faction that, until November
15, had the upper hand within the ruling Zanu-PF party. Read more on this story here Mugabe's ex-deputy 'doesn't deserve exit package... he
deserted his post', war vets claim Harare – Zimbabwean authorities have reportedly remained mum
over the pension of former vice president Phelekezela Mphoko amid accusations
by the country's war veterans that he deserted his government position. Mphoko lost his job after the new administration led by
President Emmerson
Mnangagwa took over following the resignation of
ex-president Robert
Mugabe in November. Mphoko was the second deputy appointed in 2014 by Mugabe,
along with current president Mnangagwa. For more on this story click here Mugabe 'desperately tried to reappoint his ex-deputy at
the height of massive street protests' Harare - An aide to former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe has
revealed how generals warned him to step aside as protests against him grew, or
face being "lynched" like Libya's Muammar Gaddafi. Massive street protests against 93-year-old Mugabe erupted
after the military briefly took power in November following the veteran
leader's sacking of then-vice president, Emmerson
Mnangagwa. Mugabe subsequently resigned after apparently striking a
deal with the army and supporters of Mnangagwa who then succeeded Mugabe Read more on this story here UN says 100 000 people in Central African Republic need
aid New York - The UN says some 100 000 people in the Central
African Republic city of Paoua urgently need humanitarian aid following clashes
between armed groups. UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said on Monday that over
60 000 people have taken refuge in the city near the border with Chad as a
result of the fighting and 40 000 live there. Dujarric said "should armed groups continue clashing
and attack other villages, the number of displaced people in Paoua could
potentially double or triple." Read more on this story here Police: Kenyan Catholic priest arrested for sodomy Nairobi - A Kenyan police report says a Roman Catholic
priest is in custody for allegedly sodomizing a man. Police said on Tuesday that villagers in Muranga County in
central Kenya had been monitoring the priest whom they suspected of being gay
and alerted local authorities when an 18-year-old man went into the priest's
quarters on Monday. Police said they found the two in the priest's bedroom and
after interrogation they admitted to sexual relations. Read more on this story here Nigeria army releases 244 who denounced Boko Haram Maiduguri - Nigeria's army released 244 Boko Haram suspects
who have denounced their membership in the deadly extremist group, Nigerian
army officials said on Tuesday. Those released on Monday included 118 adult males, 56 women,
19 teens and 51 children, according to operation commander Major General Rogers
Nicholas, who said they were freed after participating in a de-radicalisation
program. One of the released females said she was accused of being a
cook for Boko Haram and was held by Nigerian authorities for about a year. For more on this story click here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  