Thulani Gqirana PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It’s
official. The Democratic Alliance in Cape Town has been given the go ahead to
table a motion of no confidence in mayor Patricia de Lille. The
ANC, on the other hand, has decided to withdraw their motion of no confidence
 against De Lille which was due to be debated in council today (Wednesday
January 31). This
after the DA caucus voted to table a motion of no confidence against her on
Thursday, January 25. At the time, 84 councillors had voted
in favour of the motion and 59 voting against. DA leader Bonginkosi Madikizela on Wednesday said the Federal Executive has
authorized them to lodge the motion. “The
FedEx has thus authorized the caucus - which has already expressed its lack of
confidence in the Mayor by a way of a caucus vote - the right to support the
ANC’s motion. While this is an unprecedented move, the ANC correctly in its
motion details many, but not all, of the maladministration that the Mayor is
responsible for.” The
ANC had already tabled a motion of no confidence in De Lille, due for debate on
Wednesday. “The
FedEx has taken this step on the basis that the caucus, and the Party has too lost
faith in her leadership. It is therefore in the best interests of the people of
Cape Town and good governance – given the threat that Patricia de Lille poses
to both – that we have no choice but to remove her as the Mayor. “This
is a demonstration of the fact that we are able to rise above narrow
party-political interests and to serve the democratic project in South Africa,”
Madikizela said. He
stressed that the party had previously appealed to the ANC to support motions
of no confidence tabled by the DA against President Jacob Zuma. “It
is for similar reasons that the FedEx has authorised the caucus to vote for a
motion to remove Patricia de Lille. We reached this point due to the untenable
and destructive role played by the Mayor.” The ANC has called for government
intervention in Cape Town. “Whilst Patricia De Lille, is the face of a corrupt,
dysfunctional municipality as well as a weak, directionless Democratic Alliance
(DA) at the City, she is but one cog of a bigger problem that is the DA and its
patronage networks within the City,” ANC spokesperson Khusela Diko said. “The DA wants to opportunistically hijack the
motion of no confidence brought by the ANC against De Lille to resolve their
own internal squabbles over resources linked to the City’s water crisis,” she
said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  