During an update on the ongoing water crisis in the Western Cape, Mayco member Xanthea Limberg has said the Cape Town CBD would be excluded from the 'Day Zero' water shutdown to ensure the economy keeps going.  - For the latest updates, follow News24 reporter James de Villiers: @pejames  Jump to
                    bottom From February 1, with the implementation of Level 6B water restrictions, Cape Town residents will be limited to 50 litres (previously 87 litres) of water per person, per day, in a bid to reduce consumption and avoid a "Day Zero" scenario.  The briefing ends as De Lille leaves to attend a funeral.  It is unpredictable what rainfall levels will be expected in the years ahead... "If any," De Lille adds.  De Lille: Dam levels are effectively at 16% currently.  De Lille: "This should not be used to play politics..."  De Lille: "If we reduce water usage you can still have your water delivered to your houses. If not, you will have to queue for water."  De Lille: "The City's staff is reducing leaks extensively. Treated effluent system is being distributed to reduce dependency on drinking water. "The team is working very hard to implement water augmentation schemes. This alone will not be enough to avoid Day Zero without Cape Town [residents] reducing consumption."  Should 'Day Zero' arrive, there will be approximately 200 sites for water distribution, according to Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille.  #CapeWater De Lille: The chances of reaching day zero in April is now very likely @TeamNews24 #CapeWater the City of Cape Town is expected to address media on “what more can be done to avoid Day Zero.” Briefing was supposed to start at 10:30. Mayoral committee member for water Xanthea Limberg in attendance. Mayor Patricia de Lille still absent. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/DKXmXf1uEN Day Zero is looming. Watch the video to find out what will happen if we reach Day Zero and what the City has been doing to prevent it. Thank you to residents who have been saving water where they can. Together, we can #ThinkWaterCT and avoid Day Zero. pic.twitter.com/SiRn19c0nd #WaterFAQs The @News24 team is heading to a City water briefing at 10:30 and want to know from you what burning questions you have for us to ask ????I'll tweet replies as the City supplies them. ICYMI: Why the proposed Cape Town drought levy is unfair (By Lee-Ann Steenkamp) Day Zero: the dreaded day when Cape Town’s taps are expected to run dry has been moved forward to 21 April. That is, unless residents reduce usage even further and the long awaited alternative sources, like desalination plants, come on stream. These saving grace projects are running behind schedule, although drilling on the Cape Flats Aquifer has at last started. These essential projects are expensive and someone has to foot the bill. Enter the proposal tabled by Mayor Patricia De Lille for a drought levy. The levy is being proposed because the dramatic drop in water usage has meant a large shortfall in projected revenue. The city’s estimated water budget deficit ballooned to R1.7bn for the 2017 - 2018 financial year, based on consumption figures for October 2017.  ICYMI: Dam project fast-tracked to tackle Cape Town water crisis Plans to increase water supply to the Voëlvlei Dam, scheduled to come on stream in 2024, have been fast-tracked to 2019 to help with Cape Town’s water crisis, GroundUp reported on Friday. Sputnik Ratau, spokesperson for the Department of Water Affairs, told GroundUp that Minister Nomvula Mokonyane had said the project should be accelerated and that it would be underway by 2019. The scheme involves pumping winter rainfall from the Berg River into the dam. The National Water and Sanitation Management Plan, published in draft form by the department in December 2017, says that the Voëlvlei project is one of a handful of "projects of national importance" and is set for "urgent implementation". As the country’s second economic hub, Cape Town "is already in deficit" and the project is "already overdue", the plan notes.  WATCH: Aquifer water won't be ready a week from now, but it also won't take a year - expert  Jump to
                top