Chrislynn Sias PHOTO: Facebook/@Siam Lee Missing 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     “It’s the most horrific feeling. Please, just bring our child back.” This is the heartrending plea of Sue Foster, a friend of missing Siam Lee’s family. Siam (20) went missing last Thursday shortly after leaving her workplace in Margaret Maytom Avenue in Durban North. According to Sue, Siam had been receiving threats from an unknown man since October last year. He’d apparently also been stalking her. “There was a man who’d wanted a relationship with Siam, but she wasn’t interested. She told him so and he didn’t handle it well,” Sue told YOU. “He kept sending her nasty, degrading messages. It was awful.” Siam continued to refuse his advances and after a while it seemed the man had finally got the message. “He went quiet and stopped bothering her. We – and especially her mother – were overjoyed that he’d finally seen reason.”   But the Lee family’s relief was not to last.  According to Sue, the man showed up at Siam’s workplace one day. He was screaming and aggressive. He allegedly started pushing and shoving Siam, at which point one of her colleagues had intervened and chased the man off. The family believes the same man is behind Siam’s disappearance.  CCTV footage taken in Maytom Avenue apparently shows Siam being abducted by the driver of a black Mercedes with Gauteng registration. “We’ve hired a private detective to investigate because the police don’t seem to be doing much. After several dead ends the detective followed a lead on Monday evening that led to police searching a home where Siam was supposedly being held.”  The search appeared to be fruitless – Sue thinks her abductors had moved Siam before the search. “This abduction is wrong and unacceptable. Is this what life’s become? You can take another person against their will?”  In a heartrending video Siam’s mother, Carmen Lee, pleads with the abductor to return her child.  Local community newspaper North Glen News reported that Siam’s shoes were found at the spot where she was last seen. Colonel Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, confirmed the incident. Anyone with information on Siam’s whereabouts is urged to contact Warrant Office Pillay on 073-789-9047 or the station at 031-560-8004. Alternatively, contact Crimestop at 08600-10111.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  