Hlengiwe Nhlabathi and S’Thembile Cele Cyril Ramaphosa. (Themba Hadebe, AP File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa yesterday outlined plans to radically transform the economy through free education and by expanding the mandate of the country’s competition authorities.  Rubber stamping President Jacob Zuma’s surprise announcement ahead of the party’s elective conference last month, Ramaphosa told an excited crowd that the free education policy the ANC speaks of is now a reality.  However, he took a swipe at Zuma’s premature announcement, which was made before the government determined how it would fund free education. The party’s free education policy has pitted Zuma against universities, which also criticised the surprise announcement last month, and claimed they had not been consulted about the move. “As we find money, we will implement free education in a phased approach to ensure the sustainability of governance finances and radically expanded access to education,” he said. “This historic decision vindicates many decades of struggle for free education for the poor,” Ramaphosa said. He took a tactical approach on the Nasrec conference resolution to nationalise the SA Reserve Bank. “The ANC once more reaffirms the role, mandate and independence of the Reserve Bank. As mandated by the conference, we call on government to develop proposals, in line with international practice, to ensure full public ownership of the bank.” Although the fight to label the working class’ enemy as white monopoly capital was lost at last year’s policy conference, the resolution to pursue radical economic transformation was made at last month’s conference.  In a bid to stop monopolies in their tracks, Ramaphosa spoke of a proposal to expand the mandate of institutions tasked with investigating price fixing.  This would presumably include the Competition Commission and the Competition Tribunal. “To reduce concentration of ownership and open the market to new, black-owned companies, we have agreed to expand the mandate of the competition authorities. “These institutions will have the responsibility and means to reduce monopoly control of our economy and increase competition,” he said.  “State procurement and the award of concessions are going to be used more effectively to promote broad-based BEE and encourage greater worker ownership and board representation.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  