Boipelo Mere A challenging year is looming for the secondary school at the Tswelopele Correctional Centre.Photo: Boipelo Mere Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A challenging year looms for the secondary school at the Tswelopele Correctional Centre as the centre continues its desperate search for a Mathematics and Physical Science teacher. This follows the resignation of the previous teacher in the middle of last year, leaving the four matriculants doing these specialised subjects stranded. Unsuccessful efforts to replace the teacher reportedly led to the learners failing their final exams.making it during their matric final exams. According to the head of development, Ofentse Malefo, these learners (who have now enrolled for supplementary examinations) performed exceptionally well in all their other subjects. “We are so desperate for a teacher that we were given the go-ahead to launch a headhunt for a qualified teacher to start as soon as possible,” Malefo said. “The school, now three years old, has suffered a huge blow. Yet the learners are hungry enough to put their all into completing matric.” The school achieved a 79% pass rate from its 19 inmates in the class of 2017. This improvement was welcomed against the 74% pass rate in 2016 and 92% pass rate in 2015. Altogether 25 full-time matriculants are enrolled for 2018. “We are now marching towards the 100% pass rate that we have been aiming for all along,” Malefo said. “It is only due to these unfortunate circumstances that we did not reach the target last year. “Our nine qualified teachers and the learners are working hard at accomplishing that set target.” The Tswelopele Secondary School has never had a female inmate registered for matric, as most of the female inmates have either completed their matric already, or are serving a shorter sentence. “The criteria is to enrol only inmates that are serving a sentence starting from four years and up. That is why we have never had any females registered for matric,” Malefo said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  