Boipelo Mere Martha Bartlett, Northern Cape MEC for Education.Photo: Boipelo Mere Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It is confirmed by the Northern Cape Department of Education that there is no longer space available for the remainder of Gr. R learners in the public ordinary schools. Parents are thus urged to enrol their children at community-based sites, as those learners will now only be able to be accommodated at schools whenever space is available. An appeal is made for parents to assist the department with the speedy placement of their children. According to the department, it is working around the clock to place the remaining 869 learners, seeking placement at public ordinary schools in the Frances Baard and John Taolo Gaetsewe Districts. These districts have had the highest learner enrolment, with a total of 20 646 learner admission applications. Included in this figure is 2 572 learner admissions that were received after the closing date, which is in itself a significant number of learners seeking placement. The number of learners in need of placement is reported to have significantly dropped from 1 519 to 869 learners since December 2017. Parents who appealed to the department will only start receiving responses to their appeal from next week, a week after the schools have re-opened. Two centres, the Frances Baard District Office and the John Taolo Gaetsewe District Office, will assist parents with the placement of learners. The centres have already commenced with their operation on Monday (15/01) in a bid to curb the unnecessary loss of valuable teaching and learning time. Geoffrey van der Merwe, media liaison officer to the MEC of ­Education, revealed that as part of the reopening of the schools programme today (17/01), depart­mental officials will visit various schools on Thursday (18/01) to do a head count of learners at the “hotspot” schools and to determine the number of spaces that are still available. “Our immediate focus is to place learners that have applied last year. “We will only be able to attend to late admissions that were received during this year, by next week,” Van der Merwe said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  