Mxolisi Mngadi Glebelands Hostel. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – A late night shooting at the notorious Glebelands Hostel in Umlazi, south of Durban, has claimed the life of a 52-year-old man and left another man seriously injured, police said on Monday. The latest shooting took place at the hostel's Block M on Sunday "where two people were shot by unknown suspects," Colonel Thembeka Mbhele told News24. "The 52-year-old man later succumbed to his injuries in hospital," said Mbhele. The motive for the shooting was still unknown, she said. The other man in his 30s was shot and injured at the same block. Mbhele said charges of murder and attempted murder have been opened at the Umlazi police station for investigation. No arrests have been made. Over 100 people have been reportedly killed at the hostel since 2014. Last Wednesday, a warrant of arrest was issued for "an armed and very dangerous man" wanted for murder and attempted murder cases at the hostel. Bongani Mbhele, 34, is being sought, particularly for the attempted murder of the hostel's peace committee member on September 30, 2016. READ: KZN police search for 'armed and very dangerous' Glebelands murder suspect Mbhele allegedly shot and injured the 32-year-old man, who was on his way to fetch bath water at the hostel's Block 52. He allegedly waited at the corner and, when the victim walked past him, he fired several shots, wounding the victim in the face. Ran for his life The victim, who recognised Mbhele since he also stayed at the hostel, ran for his life and was taken to hospital for medical attention, police said. A case of attempted murder was opened at the Umlazi police station for investigation. Police said Mbhele was also being sought for additional murder and attempted murder cases that he had allegedly committed at the hostel. "He is well known to be armed and very dangerous. Anyone who knows his whereabouts is urged to immediately contact the investigating officer, Warrant Officer Bonginkosi Ngcobo on 079 5000 694 or 083 477 669." The Moerane Commission, chaired by advocate Marumo Moerane, was established in October 2016 to investigate the high number of political killings in the province since 2011. It has heard that the hostel was a reservoir of hitmen who are hired to carry out political and taxi industry assassinations. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  