Mpumelelo Mkhabela (file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      Mpumelelo Mkhabela The proposed free higher education for the poor, effective
from 2018, is mechanical and focuses narrowly on the financial needs of the
impoverished. But it lacks the moral necessity to produce graduates who would
have a sense of obligation to society.  Under pressure from a wave of seemingly unstoppable student
protests, lame duck president Jacob Zuma took the decision to provide free
higher education to all poor students. The decision was endorsed by the ANC's
54th national conference, intensifying the debates about whether South Africa
can afford it.  Government officials are crunching the numbers. Universities
are anxious to see how the government will finance the scheme given the fact
that they are already underfunded. The country is waiting to see which service
delivery or infrastructure budgets will be cut to finance the rollout of free
higher education.  It is interesting that the idea of free higher education for
students who come from households with gross income of R300 000 excludes all
forms of repayment. The beneficiaries would owe society nothing, even if they
fail or drop out. It's really totally free. Free from interest payment. Free
from social obligations. It's purely a mechanical project being designed to assist
poor students to gain access to training opportunities in preparation for entry
into the labour market or becoming entrepreneurs. The design excludes an
important dimension: the character of the prospective graduate.  At this stage, the prospective graduate is treated purely as
mechanical being who needs financial assistance for the fulfilment of a
mechanical objective of entering the economy as an employee or entrepreneur.
Technical and monetary needs of the prospective graduate have been elevated
above values that should underpin civic duty.  The noble goal of ensuring as many as possible are skilled is
achievable. Only the unrealistic would deny the need to assist poor students
gain an education. But it appears the noble motive to provide free higher
education has triumphed the idea of creating a society driven by values of
responsibility.  While the essence of free education is driven by the
government's perspective of its responsibility to those who cannot make ends
meet, it is being designed in such a way that it also undermines this very same
value by not inducting the beneficiaries to the value of reciprocity towards
society. This means the government is using social solidarity as a foundational
value to achieve a purely liberal, individualistic outcome – a Margaret Thatcher-type
of human being.   It's wrong to treat poor students in this way. Of course,
they won't complain. Who would complain about being given a priceless lifetime
gift such as access to higher education? The risk, though, is that the
beneficiaries will soon be converted into statistics for government
achievements.  Every year we will be told how many students have been
supported by the government through the free higher education scheme. Absent of
the values of responsibility towards society, the statistics will not tell us
the extent to which the students are responsible citizens.  This is not to say poor students must be treated differently
simply because they receive free higher education from society. But the danger
of not imposing on them an obligation to society could impoverish the value of
social solidarity from which they derive benefits.  Consider a student from a privileged background whose
parents decided not give her free cash for fees, but instead stood as guarantor
for a secure a loan which must be paid when she starts working. It is more
likely that this student would emerge a better graduate with a better
appreciation for the assistance she received than someone who has no obligation
to pay anything in return.  It is true that students from poor backgrounds are already
faced with obligation to look after extended family members and therefore
cannot be compared to those who are privileged. They also pay so-called "black
tax" –  the remittances of black
middles class to extended family members. But repayment for assistance received
in the form of free higher education doesn't have to be in cash. It could be by
way of a properly administered nationwide community service programme.  Many wealthy parents who have businesses ensure that their
children work in those businesses during school holidays and after they have
graduated, in order to earn some pocket money. In the absence of this kind of
privilege in families of working class students, the government could play the
role of wealthy parents in this context.  A combination of community service and an obligation to be a
good citizen, such as for example, not being involved in crime, including the
destruction of university property, could be included in the package of social
responsibility for recipients of free higher education. After all, crime such
as the burning of libraries and laboratories on many campuses is often
committed in the name of poor students. The point is, there must be something
that ties them to society. It's not a given that they would appreciate free
higher education.  The government must demonstrate that it has learned from the
experience of social grants. It dawned late on the government that there were
people who received social grants and failed to enrol their children in school.
 The fact that there are no-fee schools and free meals has
not motivated some parents and guardians to ensure that all children who
receive social grants attend school. Nor has it motivated them to take an
interest in the educational activities of the beneficiaries of social grants. It took time for the government to consider linking social
grants to the obligation of parents or guardians to take their children to
school. Even after this idea was considered, it is not being implemented or
enforced. There is no sound mechanism in place to enforce it. As a result,
there are recipients of social grants who don't go to school or who drop out
inexplicably.  This means poverty will continue to be reproduced and the
measure of success for government's anti-poverty programmes would continue to
be the consistently rising number of people on social grants.  In the case of no-obligation free higher education, we face
the danger of producing students who have no sense of giving back. The
forthcoming stakeholder meeting aimed at finalising the free higher education
plan must include some form of non-monetary obligation to society. Or face the
prospects of manufacturing technically skilled graduates without souls.    - Mkhabela is a fellow at the Centre for the Study of
Governance Innovation (GovInn) at the University of Pretoria.  Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the
expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are
therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   