On Thursday, President Donald Trump questioned why the US would accept any more immigrants from Haiti and "shithole countries" in Africa rather than from Norway.  - Read: Why allow immigrants from 'shithole countries' - Trump This came after two senators presented details of a bipartisan immigration deal which was rejected by Trump. South African social media users did not take Trump's remarks laying down and lashed out at him on Facebook and Twitter.  See the reaction here:   Tonight at 11/10c, as someone from South Shithole, Trevor is deeply offended by the president’s remarks. pic.twitter.com/4dTaMapmSG  If this is “shithole” then don’t know what good is1. Johannesburg 2. Nairobi3. Kigali 4. Abuja pic.twitter.com/FGodSwuqa9 When Trump and friends talk about the 'immigrant problem' they mean the people with skin that isn't white problem. For some reason immigrants from Europe, like his own wife, are not a problem. It’s ok, Donald Trump. I’ll take my shithole country over yours any day. ???? Donald Trump says Africans live in shit-hole countries & we shouldn’t be allowed in the US. He forgot how America was built using slaves from Africa. Many countries became rich by exploitating our natural resources, this is how they thank us. Oprah must just run for President. A warm good morning to everyone except Donald Trump. Love to everyone from "shithole" South Africa ?????? What makes Africa such a shithole? Our diverse cultures? Who wants immense culture that results in opening our minds. Our people? Who wants warm, diverse people. Wildlife? There's Disney's Animal Kingdom&zoos for that! Our resources? Who needs gold, platinum, copper and diamonds.  If I had to choose between my “shithole country” and a country where Trump rules, I think I’ll stay right here.   Then don’t trade with ‘shithole’ countries #Trump. But naahhh ! That wouldn’t work for you ne ? I've been reading about Trump's latest insult this morning. I'm so glad that I live in one of the countries he refers to as a "shithole". I would far rather live here than there, despite our big problems. That oxygen thief has set America back so far, it is incomprehensible. Oh no! Another terrible sunset last night in this Shithole pic.twitter.com/Q0qviZgEGT Here’s the view from my flat in this #shithole country... love South Africa ?? pic.twitter.com/JDttKt4We0 Gosh, #POTUS Donald Trump knows a lot about Africa. Where is the Republic of Shitholia? 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  