Tshegofatso Makhudu PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The funeral industry has become rather shady over the past few years and it doesn’t seem to be getting better any time soon. In 2017 News24 reported on corpses left abandoned on the road and funeral parlor scams were reported by IOL. Now what appears to be the latest 'scam' has come in the form of a Facebook post by a user called Indvodza YeMswati Leyiliciniso. The man from Hillbrow posted pictures of a “used” coffin and indicated the willingness to buy and sell the used coffins. “For sale,” the caption reads. “I'm With A Group Of Merchants, We Sell Slightly Used Coffins - Why Buy A New One When You Can Save And Buy At Half Price. We Sell Country Wide. Metal R5000 - R7000 All Wood Types R2500 - R4000.” This post was shared over 1800 times. The post itself did not seem to be a real advertisement because of the lack of contact details and a previous post in which the same user claimed to be selling "undisclosed" grave locations. This, however, still seemed like a serious matter to executive chairman of the Funeral Industry Reformed Association (Fira), Johan Rousseau – who believes that these things actually do happen. “These types of things do infact happen because cemeteries are not under security like they are supposed to be. Laws that protect the dead aren’t implemented properly.” “Fira is always looking into complaints from the public from sites such as Hello Peter because the national consumer council is not effective in handling these complaints,” he added. Rousseau advises that buyers first check if coffins are in a good condition and if not they should take them back to the manufacturer. He also added that if they have been sold a second-hand coffin they should quickly inform Fira and the matter will be taken to the authorities on their behalf. DRUM has attempted to contact Indvodza but he was not available for comment immediately. See the post here:     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.