Chester Makana, Correspondent Deputy Higher Education and Training Minister Buti Manamela at Capricorn TVET College on Monday.  (Chester Makana, News24 correspondent) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Polokwane – Higher Education Deputy Minister Buti Manamela says the increased demand for vocational education and training is a call for government to direct more resources towards expanding the sector. Manamela was speaking at Capricorn Technical Vocational Education and Training College's application centre on Monday. His visit comes after six prospective students were injured during a stampede as dozens tried to force themselves into the college last week. Read: Student hopefuls injured in stampede during Limpopo college registration Manamela said statistics showed that student enrollments at Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges had increased from 350 000 to at least 750 000 nationally over the past four years. He said it was inspiring to see the increase in demand. Manamela visited the college's application centre at the Peter Mokaba Stadium as part of an inspection of the ongoing application process. Prospective students urged to consider other colleges "We are very excited that there is a huge demand for TVET education, this means that as government we need to invest more in expanding the sector," he said. Manamela said all prospective students would receive assistance. Hoping to secure a place at the institution that has already indicated that it would only cater for 1 200, scores of prospective students started queuing from Sunday afternoon with some spending the night at the local sports facility. Calvin Thobejane, from Burgersfort, said even though he had submitted his application he remained in the dark about whether he would realise his dream of studying further. "I submitted my application but my name was above the limit. They said they are looking for 1 200, and I don't know. I am still waiting for Tshwane University of Technology," said Thobejane. In December President Jacob Zuma announced that free education for students who come from households that have a total annual income of less than R350 000 would be phased in starting this year. But Manamela appealed to prospective students to consider Waterberg and Lephalale TVET colleges where there was still space available. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  