Loyiso Madinga. (Photo supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town -  Removing President Jacob Zuma will cause economic havoc, says Transform SA, Parliament wants to start hearings into the Steinhoff scandal and Cape Town speaker asks News24 to disclose its sources.  Scroll through some of our leading stories: Madonsela hits back at Mkhwebane over 'scope creep'The former and current public protectors differ sharply about what the Zondo Commission into state capture should investigate. Recalling Zuma will cause havoc, Transform SA warns ANC leadersRemoving President Jacob Zuma will cause economic havoc and could spark widespread violence, says Transform SA. Cape Town speaker asks News24 to disclose sourcesSpeaker Dirk Smit has asked News24 to stop reporting on a confidential report into alleged misdeeds by Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille. Local comedian Loyiso Madinga joins Daily Show teamComedy Central announced on Thursday that Trevor Noah has selected Loyiso Madinga to helm topical segments for the African broadcast of The Daily Show with Trevor Noah. Zim govt 'withdraws Grace Mugabe's state security' – reportThe Zimbabwean government has reportedly withdrawn ex-first lady Grace Mugabe's state security detail, with most aides formally assigned to her being "recalled and reassigned". Extortion case: Modack to remain behind bars for at least 2 more weeksControversial
 businessman Nafiz Modack and his four co-accused face at least another 
two weeks in custody, as their attempt to be released on bail drags on.Underworld extortion matter - how it affects youMoney
 received from the sale of beverages, in at least one instance, was paid
 over to those allegedly running a nightclub security extortion racket, 
meaning that patrons may have unwittingly financed them. Game over for disgraced SASCOC CEO sex-pest ReddyExplosive details have emerged which led to the immediate sacking of SASCOC CEO Tubby Reddy. Parliament gearing up for Steinhoff probeParliament’s finance oversight committee wants to start hearings into the Steinhoff scandal by late January, amidst calls for Markus Jooste and Christo Wiese to testify. Former Free State crime intelligence chief arrested for 'covering up' for PhahlaneThe former Free State head of crime intelligence has been arrested for the role she allegedly played in protecting former acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  