(iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     'We're not targeting' Grace Mugabe allies, says Zim anti-graft watchdog Harare – Zimbabwe's anti-graft watchdog has reportedly denied reports that it is targeting former first lady Grace Mugabe's allies, saying, however, that it is "following up on cases with proof provided to them". According to New Zimbabwe.com, the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC) Investigative Committee chairperson, Godson Nguni, said the anti-graft watchdog was "following evidence and complaints from the public".  Nguni said that in some cases the evidence was overwhelming against the alleged looters. Read more on this story here  Mugabe minister 'wanted over $6m fraud' in Kenya - reports Nairobi - Zimbabwe's former higher and tertiary education, science and technology development minister Jonathan Moyo is reportedly "still wanted by Kenyan authorities for an alleged $6m fraud committed in the east African country in 2000". According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Moyo had not been cleared of the fraud charges committed while he was programme director for an American-based charity, Ford Foundation. Kenyan media said that the money was meant for a Nairobi based non-profit organisation, the Series on Alternative Research in East Africa Trust started by political scientist Mutahi Ngunyi. For more on this story click here  Zuma, Kenyatta to hold talks in Durban Cape Town – President Jacob Zuma is set to hold talks with Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday at Dr John Dube residence in Durban, the presidency has said in a statement. The presidency said that Kenyatta is on his first working visit to South Africa since his inauguration on November 28. "South Africa is a strategic partner of Kenya in many areas, particularly trade and security. Numerous South African companies have a presence in Kenya. They operate in sectors such as banking, insurance, accountancy, pharmaceuticals, retail, tourism and engineering," the statement said. Read more on this story here  DRC mourns flood victims as cholera fears mount Kinshasa - Democratic Republic of Congo started two days of national mourning on Monday for 48 people killed by floods and mudslides in the capital Kinshasa amid concerns of a cholera outbreak in the vast city of 10 million. The mid-week fatalities following torrential rain wreaked havoc on flimsy homes which were flattened by mudslides. "I am here to survey the damage first-hand," said Prime Minister Bruno Tshibala, visiting the working-class districts of Bandal and Kitambo of the capital of Democratic Republic of Congo. Read more on this story here  Schools closed in Zambia as cholera toll rises to 61 Lusaka - The start of Zambia's school year has been postponed and all public gatherings banned to contain a cholera outbreak that has killed 61 people, officials said on Tuesday. Church services were cancelled on Sunday and a night-time curfew has been imposed to limit movement in Lusaka's densely-populated slum district of Kanyama, one of the worst affected areas. Street vending has also been outlawed and nightclub hours reduced, while the army has been patrolling the streets for the last 10 days to ensure compliance with the tightening restrictions. For more on this story click here At least 12 killed as farmers, cattle herders clash in Nigeria Kano - At least a dozen people were killed over the weekend in apparent tit-for-tat clashes between farmers and cattle herders in central Nigeria, police and community sources said on Monday. The violence between Christian Bachama farmers and Muslim Fulani herders happened in the Lau district of Taraba state on Friday and Saturday. Police spokesperson David Misal said 12 people were killed when unidentified gunmen attacked Fulani settlements on Friday. A reprisal attack followed on Saturday, he added. For more on this story click here     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  