Tammy Petersen Magistrate's court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Kimberley - The case against a 15-year-old pupil, accused of murdering his teacher in Manyeding Village near Kuruman, has been postponed after he made his first appearance in the Mothibistad Magistrate’s Court. The teen is in custody. The Grade 8 pupil, who cannot be named because he is a minor, appeared in court three days after Kingston Vhiya was stabbed at his home. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Dimakatso Mooi said the teenager was arrested at the scene in the early hours of Saturday. "It is alleged he went to the residence and started throwing stones at the windows. The victim came out and tried to talk to find out the problem but, when he turned his back, he was stabbed in the back with a sharp object," she said. According to the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) the alleged motive for the attack was that his assailant accused the teacher of failing him. "It is sad to note that as [Sadtu] have been calling on the department to ensure safety in schools, this teacher was attacked at his home. "Although we do not want to delve into the merits of the case, we again reiterate our call for parents to be involved in the education of their children. We are aware that most learners taught by our members come from child-headed families and homes, where there is a breakdown in the family structure; therefore we call on the community to play a more critical role in the upbringing of children in society. Children should be taught that, as much as they have rights, they also have responsibilities." Northern Cape Department of Education spokesperson Geoffrey van der Merwe said MEC Martha Bartlett would on Thursday visit Bosele Middle School as well as Vhiya’s family to "establish their needs". "Employee support services will also be at the school on Wednesday to render social support to all of this directly and indirectly affected," he said. The department condemned the incident, Van der Merwe added. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  