James de Villiers People waiting in a queue to be taken down Table Mountain. (Michael Wilcox, Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Several tourists have been left stranded on Table Mountain following a climbing incident involving three people, Wilderness Search and Rescue (WSAR) said on Monday evening. WSAR spokesperson Johann Marais said the Table Mountain Cable Car is being used in the rescue operation of two climbers dangling from ropes on Arrow Final of the mountain.  "A third person also on a controlled rope is administering CPR to one of the persons," Marais said.  "With the cable car being used as a rescue vehicle, people cannot take the cable car down."  The men are dangling from ropes below the upper cable station at least 150 metres down.  "In order to gain access to the injured climbers, rescuers are making use of the cable cars from which a rope system has been rigged to lower medical and rescue person. "This has subsequently left numerous tourists stranded at the Upper Cable Station for several hours, said Marais. 20 officials have been deployed to scene for the rescue operation.  The WSAR has appealed to the public to be patient and to allow  rescue teams to conduct the rescue in a safe and controlled manner.                      Climber stuck on Arrow Final, Table Mountain. (Image: Skymed via D Tromp) Rescue operation still in progress. Nobody can get off mountain. #tablemountain. Some of us been in queue for more than 4 hours. https://t.co/EZB9qO6g3q Dramatic rescue unfolding on #TableMountain all trams stopped, hundreds (including me) stranded on top of mountain with temperatures dropping. Emergency workers prioritizing the young and elderly. Rescue currently going down on #TableMountain. Saw a guy receiving CPR on a tiny ledge very high up on our cable car trip. pic.twitter.com/OD8LgqXihO Operation is suspended. Temperature at the top is cold, wind strength is medium, visibility zero #tmweather — Table Mountain C/Way (@TableMountainCa) January 1, 2018        People waiting in a queue to be taken down Table Mountain. (Image: Michael Wilcox, Supplied) 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  