Jan Bornman Polokwane – Six people have been injured following a stampede ahead of registration at the Capricorn TVET College in Polokwane on Thursday morning. Limpopo police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said one man sustained serious injuries.  The incident happened at around 08:00 on Thursday morning as the applicants were "jostling for access". - Are you there?  Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos.  "The injured applicant was transported to Pietersburg Provincial Hospital for medical treatment. The condition of the injured person cannot be confirmed as of now," Mojapelo said. The six injured people were between the ages of 19 and 26. Mojapelo said the police had been deployed to the college to control the situation. A spokesperson for the college was not immediately available for comment. According to tweets, a large number of students had gathered outside the campus building, waiting for the gates to open in order to register, when the stampede took place. The college had on Sunday requested new students to return on Thursday for registration.  It appears that students started queuing in the early hours of Thursday morning, with some having stayed overnight.     The long queues come after promises by the EFF Students Command (EFFSC) to assist students who defied university rules and arrived in person to register for 2018.  The EFF made the promise after President Jacob Zuma announced that free education would be rolled out to 90% of poor students across South Africa. Read: Zuma's fee-free higher education chaos The party’s student command encouraged students to conduct "walk-ins", because "the online application process usually takes time and has a lot of irregularities and cannot be trusted". However, several universities across South Africa have stated that they will not accept walk-in registrations for the 2018 academic year.  (Supplied by Limpopo SAPS) (Supplied by Limpopo SAPS)     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  