Serena Williams and her daughter, Alexis. (Screengrab: Instagram/olympiaohanian) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa in talks with President Jacob Zuma as speculation of a recall mounts, #JusticeforMthunzi goes viral after alleged racial attack and Varsity Cup cuts ties with Steinhoff. Have a look at some of our top headlines:  EXCLUSIVE: Duduzane Zuma's mystery meeting with underworld figure Nafiz Modack A photograph of suspected underworld boss Nafiz Modack and President Jacob Zuma's son Duduzane has raised questions about the proximity of the country's first family to Modack's cabal. Ramaphosa, Zuma in continuous talks as speculation of a recall mounts President Jacob Zuma and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa have had intimate meetings, as speculation over Zuma's future as head of state remains uncertain. Potential state capture inquiry witnesses want to see terms of reference Potential key witnesses in the state capture probe and political parties have expressed scepticism at President Jacob Zuma’s surprise announcement, saying that they want to see the terms of reference of the commission. Serena Williams and baby Alexis look stunning on Vogue coverThe tennis legend and her beautiful baby girl look gorgeous on the cover of the monthly American magazine.  De Lille hits back: 'This is an attack for power and position' Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille has hit back at those calling for her removal, saying their actions show they are pushing to replace her with a party member of their choice. Universities South Africa members agree to a 'more flexible approach' to walk-ins Universities South Africa says its 26 member universities have agreed to a more flexible approach for walk-in applications for the 2018 academic year. Steinhoff severs ties with Varsity CupVarsity Cup management has confirmed that Steinhoff International has withdrawn as a second tier sponsor of the annual Varsity Cup tournament. Murdered farm worker: 'Those white men didn't have to shoot him'The employers of a Tarlton farmworker, who was shot dead at the weekend, have distanced themselves from his murder and expressed sadness at his death.  #JusticeforMthunzi goes viral after alleged racial attackAn alleged racial attack has led Twitter users to start the hashtag #JusticeforMthunzi after a 21-year-old man landed up in the Intensive Care Unit. South Africans are trying to decode Ramaphosa (and getting it wrong) This is not a man to challenge at chess. He is also not a man who likes to lose. He may well be the only man able to get South Africa out of its looming economic checkmate, writes David Everatt. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  