Derrick Spies, Correspondent 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Strandfontein
– A 74-year-old man’s body was recovered on Saturday morning after he failed to return home from a paddle to a
neighbour’s house in Marina Da Gama in Cape Town on Friday evening. NSRI spokesperson, Craig
Lambinon, said concerned family members had contacted the Strandfontein NSRI
and asked for assistance after the man failed to return from a paddle. “It is suspected that he had paddled
to another residence on the marina earlier in the day and when the family arrived home in the early evening he
was not at home. He was not at the other residence and the canoe he had been
paddling on was also not found, raising concerns that he may be missing on the
Marina,” he said. Lambinon said the local
neighbourhood watch, friends and family and a large community effort had
started a search along with the police, NSRI members from Standfontein,
Simonstown and Kommetjie, and members of the Cape Town Fire and Rescue
Services. He said an extensive search had
resulted in the canoe being found during the early hours of the morning. It
appeared to have washed ashore, raising concerns that the man was missing in
the marina. Lambinon said this had raised
concerns and the search continued for the missing man, but the search was
suspended when no signs of him were found. Lambinon said the search resumed
at 07:30 on Saturday morning, with the assistance of the police dive unit and a
police helicopter supported by the fire and rescue services dive unit and the NSRI
Strandfontein. He said the canoe had been found
on Friday afternoon by a resident, who had recovered the canoe to his yard,
thinking it had been abandoned or washed off a nearby yard. “Sadly, during the search, the
body of the man was located and recovered by police divers and the body will be
taken into the care of the forensic pathology services,” he said. Lambinon said police had opened
an inquest docket. “All emergency services teams on
the scene have expressed condolences to family and friends and the huge public
and community support and assistance is commended,” he said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  