Atul Gupta and President Jacob Zuma (File, GCIS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – The North Gauteng High Court sets aside a bid to have Hoërskool Overvaal to admit 55 English-speaking learners, the world's fifth largest diamond is discovered in Lesotho and see the Queen’s response to where the crown jewels were hidden during WW2. Scroll through some of our leading stories: NPA goes after the Guptas The Asset Forfeiture Unit is going after the Gupta family, and is set to serve summonses on them on Tuesday morning to preserve assets of theirs worth in the region of R1.6 billion. High Court sets aside bid to have Hoërskool Overvaal admit 55 English-speaking learners The North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria has set aside the decision by the Gauteng education department to admit 55 learners to be taught in English, into Hoërskool Overvaal, an Afrikaans medium school. Body of missing mom found chopped up and buried at relative’s house in KZN The bodies of a woman and her son have been found in a grave at Esidakeni, near Mandini, KwaZulu-Natal police say. It's De Villiers v Kohli at Centurion Virat Kohli has given India a chance in the second Test against South Africa, but AB de Villiers is leading the Proteas fightback. Zanu-PF youth wing to 'honour' Zim 'icon' Mugabe on his 94th birthday Zimbabwean ruling Zanu-PF party's youth league has reportedly said that it is planning to honour former president Robert Mugabe on his 94th birthday, saying that he remains the country's icon. City of Cape Town manager resigns in midst of De Lille fallout City of Cape Town manager Achmat Ebrahim, who was facing possible suspension in the fallout involving Mayor Patricia de Lille, has resigned. WATCH: Rare sighting of caracal on Lion's Head On Sunday morning, two para-gliders went up Lion's Head, Cape Town, for an early morning flight and were greeted by a rare sighting of a caracal.  World's fifth largest diamond discovered in Lesotho A diamond thought to be the fifth largest of gem quality ever found has been discovered in Lesotho, miner Gem Diamonds said Monday, and could be worth as much as $40 million. Low returns for South Africans who invest in education You can’t begin to repair the education system from tertiary level. Systematic reconstruction has to begin in Grade 1. Attempting a surgical strike anywhere along the line is a waste of already limited resources, writes Sarah Setlaelo. MUST SEE: The Queen’s response to where the crown jewels were hidden during WW2 Queen Elizabeth’s response to an interviewer telling her that the crown jewels had been hidden underneath Windsor Castle in a biscuit tin to keep them safe from the Nazis has gone viral. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  