Lethiwe Makhanya The traffic officer’s badge that was used by the man who was allegedly impersonating a traffic officer.PHOTOS: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories MSUNDUZI Municipality acting traffic inspector Bheki Zondi advises drivers to report traffic police officers who ask for bribes. This follows after they arrested a man on Saturday morning, who had been impersonating a traffic officer, and taking bribes. Sbonelo Danca (30) appeared briefly in Pietermaritzburg Regional Court on Monday for fraud. The case was adjourned to January 15 to get his profile and verify his address. Zondi said they had been on the hunt for the man for the past week after receiving a tip from a driver who claimed he paid the alleged “fake traffic officer” R3 800 to write off his fines. “The person who gave us the tip ran from court three weeks ago without paying his fines. “When we found him he told us he has already paid R3 800 to this alleged ‘fake traffic officer’, who promised to write off all his fines. “So we called the ‘traffic police’ and started looking for him. ’nWe were told this [apparent] ‘traffic officer’ had a traffic police cap, blue lights and a traffic police badge displayed in his car,” he said. Zondi said taxi drivers also came forward confessing they had been paying this alleged traffic officer to write off their fines. Danca was arrested by chance after he made an illegal turn in the CBD. “When we stopped his car we never thought it would be him, but when we saw the cap, badge and blue lights we asked for his appointment card and his driver’s licence. “He told us he had left them with his wife in Howick and was rushing to hospital to see his son who had been bitten by a snake. “We then took him to our head office where we discovered he doesn’t have a driver’s licence and is not a traffic officer. Danca also confessed saying he was using his traffic officer brother’s cap, blue lights and badge, to take people’s money.” Zondi said people must be careful when they come across people like this. “As traffic police officers we are not allowed to take money from drivers even if it is for fines. We take drivers to court to pay their fines. If court is closed we take them to the nearest police station to pay there, and they get a receipt. “If any driver comes across a traffic officer who wants bribe money and promises to write off their fines, they must report him or her immediately. “It also important drivers know that if a traffic officer stops them on the road and he is not wearing a uniform, he must show them his appointment card first as proof he is a genuine traffic officer,” he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  