Yolandi Groenewald MultiChoice has revealed the outcome of its internal investigation into several payments made to the SABC and ANN7. Jump to
                    bottom [WATCH] The moment #Multichoice announced that it will not be renewing their contract with #ANN7. Courtesy #DStv403 For more >> https://t.co/GiceME3EzY pic.twitter.com/x1Czrm1urV The review found no evidence of corruption or illegal activity. It is evident from the findings that the presently polarised political environment in South Africa and controversy around the ANN7 channel ownership demanded a higher level of diligence and scrutiny than was the practice previously. Naspers supports the recommendations made by the MultiChoice Board to ensure that governance of sensitive issues like channel ownership is tightened and elevated further to avoid similar problems in the future. A review was performed by the MultiChoice Audit and Risk Committee. The Committee was chaired by Don Eriksson CA (SA), and comprised four non-executive directors and independent non-executive director, Advocate Kgomotso Moroka (SC), who was seconded to the Committee. The Committee was supported by attorneys Webber Wentzel, for legal issues and contracts, as well as an independent audit firm, for forensics and payments. The Committee had all relevant contracts scrutinised, five years of payment information and emails checked, executives involved interviewed, and undertook objective contract and cost comparisons. The Committee then presented its findings and recommendations to the full MultiChoice Board. Naspers comments on MultiChoice South Africa’s review of its carriage contract with the TV channel ANN7, and its Government lobbying The Naspers Audit and Risk Committees, and the Naspers Board, have considered the process undertaken by MultiChoice South Africa to assess its carriage agreement with the news channel ANN7 and its government lobbying, following certain allegations made in November 2017. And there goes the confidentiality clause as the money is explained. First we can't....then let me explain.  This #Multichoice briefing ??????  Multichoice to reveal the outcome of investigation Multichoice
will hold a media briefing on Wednesday to reveal the outcome of their internal
investigation into several payments made to the SABC and ANN7.   The payments
were allegedly made to influence government policy on digital migration in
favour of Multichoice. It emerged through the Gupta
Leaks last year that the video entertainment and internet company paid ANN7
millions to allegedly influence South Africa's long-stalled digital migration
switch from analogue to digital TV. MultiChoice then launched an internal probe into
the matter, led by its audit and risk committees. The findings are to be made
to the board, which will then take necessary action, the company said in a
statement in early November.

The DA had lodged a complaint with Icasa on November
27, 2017. The DA also requested MultiChoice make publicly available the
contracts with ANN7 and the SABC, according to the letter sent to Icasa.

Icasa chair Rubben Mohlaloga responded to the DA’s
request on January 26, 2018 in a letter. Mohlaloga said in the letter that the
complaint was referred to its Compliance and Consumer Affairs division “to
investigate and communicate with the DA directly." Mohlaloga also said that the parties concerned will
have to be provided with the complaint as well as other relevant attachments,
and be given an opportunity to respond to the allegations within a specified
period. Jump to
                top