Makhosandile Zulu PHOTO: makhosandile zuluWith their awards at Nsikayethu High School, Nondumiso Bhengu (left) and Anele Dladla last Friday. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ACADEMIC achievement awards were held for pupils at Nsikayethu High in Imbali last Friday. Pupils from all the grades were awarded for their academic success in 2017 and among those awarded were last year’s top matric achievers. Nondumiso Bhengu (18) and Anele Dladla (17) both obtained seven distinctions in mathematics, Zulu, physics, life sciences, life orientation and geography and English. The two were also awarded trophies and certificates for their achievements. Nondumiso said she will be studying geology­ at Wits this year because she has an interest in geography and everything that relates to it. “I love learning about the Earth and the different types of rocks and weather patterns,” she said. The 18-year-old said a trip to the Free State to attend a mining competition further­ intensified her interest in geology. “I would like to thank the school for the support they gave us as matriculants last year,  especially  the  teachers,”  Bhengu said. Her advice to this year’s Grade 12s is that they should be smart, be humble and fear God. Anele will be studying metallurgical engineering at the same institution as Nondumiso. “I chose this field because it satisfies my curiosity about chemical and physical properties of materials,” she said. She echoed Nondumiso’s gratitude to teachers who she said became family to the Grade 12 pupils of the Class of 2017 and treated the young pupils as their own children.  “Don’t work hard, work smart and believe in God because through Him all things are possible,” said Anele. The school’s Head of Department for physics Nosisa Mshengu said extra lessons in the afternoons and mornings after and before school and on weekends worked to help the pupils achieve such results.  “We also exposed our pupils to the programmes that were run by the Department of Education helped gain more knowledge,” she said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.