Shaun Gutu with his mom at his first day of school at Jan van Riebeeck Primary, Cape Town. (James de Villiers, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Several children have been injured in a crash on the first day of school, Proteas are victorious against India at Centurion and the Human Rights Commission wants Edward Zuma to fork out R100 000 for 'hate speech'. Have a look at some of our leading stories making headlines: 10 arrested in Hoërskool Overvaal protest Ten people have been arrested for public violence following protest action in front of Hoërskool Overvaal in Vereeniging, Gauteng police say. Several children injured in crash on 1st day of school Several children, aged between six and 15, were injured in a minibus taxi that overturned on Sibusiso Mdakane Drive in Umlazi E Section, south of Durban, on their first day of school. HRC wants Edward Zuma to fork out R100K for 'hate speech' The Human Rights Commission has asked Durban’s Equality Court to find Edward Zuma guilty of hate speech and order him to pay a fine of R100 000. WATCH: Parents face tearful goodbyes as first graders start school Parents had tissues at hand as they dropped their Grade One children off at Sea Point Primary in Cape Town on Wednesday, for the start of their school careers.  Why the proposed Cape Town drought levy is unfair Day Zero – the dreaded day when Cape Town's taps are expected to run dry has been moved forward to 21 April. That is, unless residents reduce usage even further and the long awaited alternative sources, like desalination plants, come on stream. Mnangagwa's tips on how to become president Zimbabwe leader Emmerson Mnangagwa has offered "tips" on how to become president that include surviving a bout of poisoning and skipping the country in fear of your life. Retrenched quintet takes Bulls to court Five former Blue Bulls employees are taking their fight to court over what they deem to be an unfair dismissal process. Twitter reacts to Ngidi's six-fer on debut Lungi Ngidi picked up a six-fer on debut to help seal the Proteas' victory against India in Centurion and Twitter responded accordingly.  Mila Kunis named Harvard's Hasty Pudding woman of the year Golden Globe-nominated actress Mila Kunis has been named Woman of the Year by Harvard University's Hasty Pudding Theatricals. SEE: Woman's marriage proposal gets rejected in shopping mall Getting rejected by someone you love isn’t how most of us imagine starting the New Year. A Nigerian woman was left devastated after she made a public proposal to her boyfriend and got turned down. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  