Furious protestors gathered outside the New Hanover Magistrate’s Court to voice their opposition to murder accused Edward Philip Walter Soloman being granted bail.PHOTO: sharika regchand Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories PROTESTORS once again gathered outside New Hanover Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday morning demonstrating at the appearance of Cramond farmer, Edward Philip Solomon on charges of the murder of Mothi Ngubane and attempted murder of Mondli Lembethe at a funeral service on his farm on Saturday December 30. Members of the ANC and Black Land First volubly declared their opposition to bail being granted to the 65-year-old farmer. It is alleged that Solomon had shot Ngubane at a Lembethe family member’s funeral after having asked the people there to leave the funeral. It is alleged that when family members attempted to intervene the accused drew his firearm and fired five shots. Solomon fled in his vehicle, but was later arrested and said to be found in possession of two rifles, a 9mm pistol and a toy gun. Solomon’s life partner, Marie Louise Bucher was brutally assaulted in their home by unknown attackers on Thursday January 4. A case of attempted murder has been opened. In Greytown and district, community security firms and services report a fairly quiet festive season. However, copper pipe thefts are on the increase. Anyone who notes anybody or anything suspicious is requested to contact G911 on 033 417 2911 immediately so that prompt action can be taken. Another current problem is remote jamming of vehicles. Motorists are advised to double check when leaving their vehicle to ensure they are locked. An intensive manhunt was still under way on Monday with police urgently looking for a man in connection with the gruesome discovery of the burnt body of 20-year-old Siam Lee by a New Hanover farmer in a cane field on his farm last Saturday The victim was last seen on January 4 leaving her place of work in Durban. The man in the identikit allegedly left with Siam in a black Mercedes-Benz Vito/V-class with unknown GP registration number. Anyone with information on his whereabouts is asked to contact Durban North police, Captain Raymond Deokaran on 083 632 2849 or Crime Stop number on 08600 10 111. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  