Unathi Obose Mayor Patrica de Lille visited the World Harvest Christian Church in Langa amid a dark cloud hanging over her. PHOTO: Unathi Obose Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories City of Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille received a warm welcome from members of the World Harvest Christian Ministry Church in Langa last Sunday. She paid the visit during a period of gloom in her political career, as her party has suspended or curtailed her functions as the City’s Number One citizen, following allegations of mismanagement against her. The DA’s Federal Executive or Fedex has formally charged and she is under investigation. She has been accused of acting in a manner that has impacted negatively on the Democratic Alliance. Including failing to carry out her duties to the standards required by the party and legislature. She has also since been charged with bringing the party into disrepute, acting in a manner that is unreasonable and detrimental to internal cooperation, and unreasonably failing to comply with the official decisions of the party During the service, Bishop Mnqantsa, leader of the church, said the mayor has done nothing wrong for visiting the church. “God is for everyone. This (mayor’s visit) has nothing to do with political affiliation. As pastors we are peace makers. Even Premier Helen Zille, when she had problems with the DA, asked us to lay hands on her in Khayelitsha. “Today we are here to do the same to mayor de Lille.” He said he has had a long standing relationship with the mayor. “We have a good relationship even before she became a mayor. She used to deal with issues relating to the church and about land issues. You know, during Apartheid, people were discriminated according to their race. Even service delivery was distributed like that,” he said adding that the right thing must happen and should be fair. Mayor Patricia de Lille asked for fair trial. “I’m asking for one thing, I’m not asking for favours. I’m asking just a fair trial. Don’t find me guilty before a trial. There are forces who are trying to bring me down, but God will deal with them. My Bishop, I fear no one. I fear my God,” she said. De Lille ensured the congregants that she will never walk away from her duties. “I’ve been given a duty by the people of Cape Town and I’ll continue with my duties. “My name is synonymous with fighting corruption,” she added. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  