President Jacob Zuma during the National Assembly meeting on August 31, 2017 in Cape Town. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  It's official: President Jacob Zuma is
under investigation. Also under investigation are current and former members of
his cabinet, as well as his friends and family. At the heart of this state capture probe is
to officially confirm and put a legal stamp on what we already know: Zuma
violated the Constitution of the Republic when he placed his interests and
those of his family and friends above those of the Republic. In so doing, he gave direct and tacit
approval to all government officials – from ministers, bureaucrats and leaders
of state-owned companies, among others – to do everything in their power not to
serve South Africans but to do the bidding of the Guptas. Multi-national companies from around the
world were seemingly given the same impression that all that matters in South
Africa is to massage the president’s friends and family for doors to open. It
had become an "unofficial official" policy at Eskom, Transnet, Denel
and others. Zuma gave away the executive authority of
the Republic, which the Constitution vests only in him to use in the interest
of the nation. We must not forget that following two elections, in 2009 and
2014, Zuma entered into a contract with the Republic when he undertook, among
other things, to "devote myself to the wellbeing of the Republic and all
its people". He also undertook to "promote all that will advance the
Republic, and oppose all that may harm it". The terms of reference of the commission of
inquiry on state capture, framed by former public protector Thuli Madonsela and
being executed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, essentially constitute an
inquiry on whether the crime of treason was committed. If an executive of a JSE-listed firm were
to face any allegation, even the mildest version of what’s contained in the
state capture terms of reference – that he used his position to harm his
company – a responsible board of directors would ask the executive concerned to
step aside pending an investigation. Similarly, if any government official is
under investigation, they are suspended pending the outcome. It’s the right
thing to do. Zuma has suspended many people. Presumably,
he knows the significance of suspending a person while they are under
investigation. Typically, the reasons are two-fold: to prevent further
reputational harm on the institution (be it a company or organ of state) and to
ensure the person under investigation does not in any way interfere with the
investigation. But as things stand now, Zuma is the
president of the country. Whether we like it or not, he retains the prerogative
to appoint and dismiss Cabinet ministers and a number of government
functionaries. He approves ministerial travels abroad and signs bills into law.
The list of his duties is long. Technically, the question arises: Why would
any government functionary risk their job or some perks by testifying against
Zuma, who still wields state power? Some people might argue that, because he is
no longer the leader of the ANC he won’t make appointments without the party’s
approval. The counter argument is that his relationship with the ANC is not
documented in the Constitution of the country. Regardless of his totally diminished political
popularity, he is the president the Republic. Like private sector executives and state
officials who get suspended pending investigation and disciplinary actions
against them, Zuma should step aside or Parliament must fire him. He should have long been fired anyway. The
establishment of the commission of inquiry provides the latest justification
out of a thousand others that have been ignored for Zuma to go. He is too conflicted to retain his position
as head of state while state officials are preparing themselves to testify
against him. There may be Cabinet ministers who might want to spill the beans.
But it won’t be possible while he remains in power. Zuma doesn’t understand conflict of
interests and even if he does, he doesn’t care. The question is whether his
organisation, the ANC, cares. If it does, it must not dilly-dally and obfuscate
issues around managing the transition carefully. It must act in the interest of
the people and remove Zuma. Now that the ANC talks about renewal, one
assumes that they will dust off some of their lofty principles. One of those they
should look at is their 1996 document entitled State and Social Transformation.
It states: "Throughout the years that the ANC
led with the slogan – Power to the People! – it waged a determined political
and ideological struggle to ensure that, both in theory and in practice, this
was not misinterpreted and vulgarised to mean – Power to the ANC!" In the secret ballot judgment, the
Constitutional Court said the slogan "Power to the People!" means all
state power and resources are to be used in the interest of the people. Zuma’s mission while he occupies
the presidency is to safeguard his interests. If anything goes wrong now with
potential witnesses to the state capture commission of inquiry, the ANC must
know that it will be complicit because it failed to get rid of the highly
conflicted Zuma. In fact, keeping Zuma in power now
is so reckless it is tantamount to giving Oscar Pistorius an AK47 while he is
prison. We know what he is capable of. Zuma’s AK47, which he uses for
private purposes, is the public office he holds. For every minute he remains in
office, the ANC is vulgarising its slogan. In short, it is chanting: "Power
to Zuma!" - Mkhabela is with the Department of Political Science at the University of South Africa. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   