Robert Mugabe (File: AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - Robert Mugabe's ex-spokesperson has revealed how the former
president was told in November that he could face the same fate as the late
Libyan dictator, Muammar Gaddafi if he refused to step down. George Charamba said he had to warn Mugabe of this
possibility during tense negotiations that he helped broker between the former
president and the army. “The commanders sent us with a very chilling message, they
said ‘please go and get the president to appreciate the gravity of the
situation out there’,” Charamba told the Daily News on Sunday. “There was the possibility of a Libyan scenario where the
president would have been dragged out of the Blue Roof (Mugabe’s Harare home)
and lynched. It was going to be possible because the soldiers said ‘we cannot
turn our guns on civilians who are marching against the president and spill
blood’,” Charamba added. Mugabe adamant Gaddafi, a former friend and ally of Mugabe, was killed by
opposition fighters in Libya in 2011. Charamba said Mugabe had been insistent he wouldn’t step
down in the wake of the November army action, even under threat of impeachment
by MPs from the ruling Zanu-PF and the opposition MDC. He said the president
was adamant he hadn’t committed any crimes. But Charamba said he had to remind the 93-year-old that
there were “other dimensions” threatening his hold on power, including the peaceful
protests that saw tens of thousands of Zimbabweans pour out onto the streets of
Harare in support of the army. ‘Harm to your well-being’ “I said shefu (leader), you are concentrating on one
dimension; there are others which are there which indicated harm to your
well-being,” Charamba quotes himself as telling Mugabe. Eventually Mugabe handed in his resignation on November 21.
This put a stop to the impeachment process, and triggered street celebrations
that went on through the night. Mugabe has since been assured of his safety by the new
government of Emmerson Mnangagwa and awarded a generous retirement package. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  