WATCH: Woman's proposal gets rejected in shopping mall Lagos - Getting rejected by someone you love isn’t how most of us imagine starting the New Year. A Nigerian woman was left devastated after she made a public proposal to her boyfriend and got turned down. According to Nigerian Eye, the incident took place at Ikeja City Mall in Lagos. The video, which was posted by Twitter user @EnekemGreg, has gone viral. In the video, the woman can be seen kneeling down with a ring in her hand as the man walks down the escalator. For more on this story click here Survive poisoning, be a border jumper: Mnangagwa's tips on how to become president Harare - Zimbabwe leader Emmerson Mnangagwa has offered "tips" on how to become president that include surviving a bout of poisoning and skipping the country in fear of your life. The 75-year-old president was speaking to Zimbabweans living in Namibia, which he visited on Monday. In the light-hearted comments Mnangagwa made it clear that aiming for the top job can be hard, if not life-threatening. "First you need to be poisoned and you need to survive the poisoning," Mnangagwa said, in quotes carried by the state-run Herald. "Next, you need to become a border jumper. Thirdly, you need people like (Sibusiso) Moyo somewhere," he added. For more on this story click here Looters 'have returned millions of externalised funds', says Zim's new leader Windhoek – Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly said that his call last year for the return of externalised funds is "being heeded and substantial millions" have been returned. A report by the state-owned Herald newspaper on Tuesday quoted Mnangagwa, who spoke on the sidelines of his state visit to Namibia this week, as saying that millions of looted funds were being returned. It was, however, not immediately clear how much had been returned so far. Read more on this story here Zim army 'on high alert' amid Grace Mugabe ally bloodshed threats – report Harare - Zimbabwe's home affairs minister Obert Mpofu has reportedly said that the military and security sector is on high alert amid fears that supporters of former first lady Grace Mugabecould regroup outside the country in efforts to destabilise Zimbabwe. According to NewsDay, Mpofu said this after former minister of higher education Jonathan Moyo, who was also Grace's ally, warned of bloodshed. Mpofu said that some elements of the defeated Zanu-PF faction known as Generation 40 (G40) were plotting to counter the military intervention which saw ex-president Robert Mugabe lose power to his former deputy Emmerson Mnangagwa. Read more on this story here UN probes DRC clashes that killed Burundi refugees New York - The United Nations announced Tuesday it will investigate the death of 39 Burundian refugees in clashes with soldiers in the Democratic Republic of Congo in September. The soldiers allegedly opened fire on the refugees in eastern South Kivu province after they protested the detention of a small group of Burundians by Congolese authorities. Nigerian Lieutenant-General Chikadibia Isaac Obiakor will lead the UN investigation of the violence on September 15 in Kamanyola, said a UN statement. Read more on this story here Ethiopia releases top opposition figure from prison Burayu - Ethiopia's top opposition figure and hundreds of others were released from prison on Wednesday as part of the government's recent pledge to free detained politicians and "widen the democratic space for all." Merara Gudina led the Oromo Federalist Congress party and was arrested a year ago under the country's state of emergency after he returned from Europe, where he had briefed lawmakers on widespread and sometimes deadly anti-government protests in the East African nation. Merara was released along with 115 others from a federal prison on the outskirts of the capital, Addis Ababa. He was met by thousands of youths in his adopted hometown of Burayu outside the capital, with some chanting anti-government slogans. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  