Nation Nyoka ATM. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Polokwane – Two people are to appear before the Giyani Magistrate's Court in Limpopo on Monday in connection with a series of armed and house robberies in which a consolidated R3.7m was allegedly stolen. The accused, aged 25 and 31, were arrested on Saturday during a robbery in the Giyani CBD, in close proximity to a bank, Limpopo police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said in a statement. They also face a charge of possession of unlicensed firearms, which stems from allegations that unlicensed firearms were found in their possession at the time of their arrest, police said. Ngoepe said a dedicated detective team was put in place after reports from October 2017 surfaced that a group of criminals had been targeting people as they left banks. "Victims were often followed, after withdrawing money from the banks in the area and when arriving at their homes, and these criminals would then pounce on them and rob them of cash amounts of money at gunpoint," read a statement. For these reasons, the charges were house and armed robbery, he added. "In all the case dockets which were opened, the consolidated cash amount of money robbed from the individual members of the community is R3.7m and more cases are still being reported, which will increase this amount," read a statement. Police have appealed to any victims to report to their nearest police station or to call the lead detective, Chris Mabasa, on 082 469 0739. Limpopo provincial commissioner Lieutenant General Nneke Ledwaba commended the team for helping to quell the reign of terror the criminals imposed on the residents of Giyani. "We hope that this milestone achievement will bring… relief to members of the community in and around Giyani, especially all the affected victims. But those criminals who are still trying their luck by grouping themselves to harass our communities, their days are numbered," he said. Police investigations continue. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  