Mxolisi Mngadi (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – KwaZulu-Natal police have freed a man, who was suspected of throwing rocks at passing cars from an overhead bridge on the N2 in Amanzimtoti on Wednesday. "There was no rock-throwing incident, the man only threw a water container down the bridge after he had finished drinking all the water," Colonel Thembeka Mbhele told News24. Mbhele said the man was released after police combed the scene where he was alleged to have thrown a rock at a passing car. "A member of the community, who [had been] driving on the N2, saw a man on the bridge who threw something down the bridge as he approached it. He stopped the car and, assisted by other community members, they chased after the suspect and caught him," Mbhele said. She said community members and the victim of the apparent rock-throwing incident took the man to a local police station. "They told police that they saw him throwing rocks down the bridge. They also said there were other rocks on the spot where they saw him," she said. The man explained to police that he had been drinking water and only threw a container down the bridge, Mbhele said. "Police took him to the spot where he said he threw the container and they found it. The station commander was also at the scene when the man was taken there," she said. The man has been released, Mbhele added. Incidents There have been several rock-throwing incidents along the province's highways since December 2017, especially the N2, from Durban to the north of the province. Two people died along the N2 highway in Umhlali, north of Durban, when a large rock was allegedly thrown from an overhead bridge onto their car at the end of December. A woman and her seven-year-old brother died during the incident, police confirmed. Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson on Sunday said a motorist had a lucky escape after yet another rock was thrown off a bridge at a car on the North Coast Road at the N2 bridge near Glen Anil at about 19.45. He said the rock was thrown through his windscreen. Although he sustained minor injuries he did not go to hospital, Jamieson said. Last Thursday, provincial police said they were unable to release the number of highway rock-throwing incidents, saying that "they amount to crime statistics which are the prerogative of only the Minister of Police to release". Police said they had identified the overhead bridge between Ballito and Tongaat as a rock-throwing hotspot. "Visible policing members have been tasked to patrol the area on a 24-hour basis to prevent similar incidents. The SAPS provincial management is meeting with other security departments and the Department of Transport to discuss measures of preventing these crimes," Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane had said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  