Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters (Photo: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Rio 2016 Olympic bronze medallist Henri Schoeman has been cleared of the doping charges, former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu faces a grilling at the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearings and see pictures of the South African delegation in a snowy Davos at the World Economic Forum. Here is a round-up of some of our top stories: UDM, Cope want Zuma to pay R1m upfront for state capture appealThe United Democratic Movement and the Congress of the People want President Jacob Zuma to pay R1m upfront before going ahead with his appeal against the North Gauteng High Court's state capture judgment. 'You made a fool out of South Africa’s caring public,' court tells mom who faked baby's abduction A 34-year-old primary school teacher has heard how she made a fool out of South Africa’s caring public when she pretended she had been hijacked and that her baby had been abducted. Police, army will help secure Day Zero water distribution points - ZilleA plan has been devised for the police, the military and traffic officers to help monitor water distribution points across Cape Town in the event of Day Zero, Western Cape Premier Helen Zille says.WATCH: Demi-Leigh looks regal in red as SA welcomes her homeDemi-Leigh Nel-Peters arrived back in South Africa for the first time since being crowned Miss Universe.  'Can I answer tomorrow, please?' Mahlangu pleads at Life Esidimeni hearingFormer Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu faces a grilling at the arbitration hearings into the Life Esidimeni tragedy that led to the deaths of at least 143 vulnerable patients.Mark Lifman controls the police, attorney alleges in courtAn attorney has alleged that controversial businessman Mark Lifman is in control of police, especially officers who are driving the extortion case against suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack.PICS: Team SA gets down to business at World Economic Forum in DavosSee pictures of the South African delegation taking part in the World Economic Forum's annual meeting taking place in a snowy Davos, Switzerland. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, seen here with his wife admiring the snow at the Swiss Alpine resort, is leading Team SA to woo investors to South Africa. (Photo: GCIS) Triathlon governing body clears Schoeman of dopingRio 2016 Olympic bronze medallist Henri Schoeman has been cleared of the doping charges levelled against him. REVEALED: Queen Elizabeth II's dream for ZimbabweBritain's Queen Elizabeth II is seeking to mend fractured relations between Zimbabwe and her country, a report says, adding that she is hoping the southern African country can rejoin the Commonwealth. Modimolle man accused of raping his sons faces more chargesA 30-year-old father of four has appeared in court on 14 charges, including raping both of his sons and forcing them to perform sexual acts on each other, the Modimolle Magistrate's Court has heard. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  