Makhosandile Zulu Linah Dlamini points at trenches that have been dug to allow the water to drain away from the homes. PHOTO: makhosandile zulu Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories SOME residents in Azalea A1 in Mbambo Road say in heavy rain their houses are flooded and their furniture is damaged. Resident Gladys Ndlovu said this has happened to her since 2012, which eventually forced her to move out. “Sometimes when the water flowed inside the house the electricity would go out. “The water flows into the house so much that it is difficult to block with towels and it flows in through the kitchen door and out the other end at the living room door,” Ndlovu said. She said she has reported the matter to the community leaders who told her the municipality should resolve the matter, but nothing has been done since. Ndlovu’s neighbour, Linah Dlamini, was forced to throw out her wardrobe after recent heavy rain flooded her home. Residents say the problem is with the topography of the area and the drainage system. Dlamini said her family and neighbours have dug trenches to drain the water, but this too has been of no help. Zandile Mkhupha said this issue resulted in a toilet collapsing some years ago. She said there used to be a trench just above their homes which ensured the rain water flowed to the street rather than into their yard. “But no one takes care of that trench anymore,  it  has  now  become  a  footpath,” she said. Mkhupha believes that if the trench was dug again and with cement plastered it would solve the problem when it rains. Nonkululeko Majola, who lived in Ndlovu’s house said the water has caused considerable damage to the interior walls and tiles. “Even the toilet [on the side of the house from where the water flows] is full of sand, which is pushed by the water and we cannot use it at the moment,” she said. The residents say they fear that if this goes on unattended their houses will eventually collapse. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  