Mnangagwa: 'Grace Mugabe was not mentally okay' Harare - President Emmerson Mnangagwa says he believes former first lady Grace Mugabe had become mentally unstable towards the end of her husband’s long rule. In an interview with Britain’s Financial Times, Zimbabwe’s new president said the incident that convinced him of this was a rally held by Grace Mugabe in November, in which she called Mnangagwa a snake who should have his head crushed. Read more on this story here Zim white farmer 'seeks Mnangagwa govt assistance to get back farm' – report Harare –A Zimbabwean white farmer Richard Seager is reportedly seeking President Emmerson Mnangagwa's assistance in getting back his 609 hectare farm that was seized from him in 2007 by an indigenous farmer. According to the privately-owned Standard newspaper, Seager claimed in a letter to Mashonaland East Provincial Minister of State David Musabayana and Lands minister Perrance Shiri that his farm in Wedza, was "fraudulently and violently" taken away from him. "Having heard the new government's mandate and witnessing the reinstatement of several white farmers, this has prompted me to make this application seeing how fair, just and committed the government is with this exercise. " For more on this story click here EU open to send Zimbabwe vote monitors, wants credible polls Brissels - The European Union says it stands ready to send election monitors to Zimbabwe and hopes that free and fair polls can be held soon. EU foreign ministers said in a statement on Monday that "the upcoming electoral process will be an essential step" in helping to re-establish the rule of law in Zimbabwe. They said "the EU would consider favorably electoral observation" under certain conditions and if Zimbabwe invites the monitors. For more on this story click here Weah sworn in as Liberian president, completes historic transition Monrovia - Former international football star George Weah was sworn in as Liberia's new president on Monday, in the country's first transition between democratically-elected leaders since 1944. Weah, 51, took over from Nobel laureate Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, who spent 12 years at the helm, steering the West African nation away from the trauma of a civil war. He was sworn in as president by the chief justice of the Supreme Court, Francis Korkpor. Read more on this story here 7 die at Ethiopia's Epiphany in clashes with security forces Addis Ababa - An Ethiopian police official in the restive Amhara region in the north confirmed Sunday evening that seven people were killed when worshippers celebrating the Epiphany holiday clashed with security forces. The killings on Saturday in the town of Woldiya, some 500km north of the capital Addis Ababa, happened on the second day of the colorful Epiphany celebrations in this East African nation. For more on this story click here      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  