The long wait of beneficiaries due to the processing and paying out of funds from the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) in the Free State is a thing of the past. This is after the Department of Labour converted selective labour centres into fully-fledged centres to process UIF claims. The decision has resulted in nine of the 11 labour centres converted. Josial Ramokoena, the department’s provincial spokesperson, says the far-reaching decision aims at improving service delivery and the processing of UIF benefit claims. He says the department has resolved to deploy decentralised Paymaster officials of the department to all centres which have been con­verted. Ramokoena says Paymaster is tasked to effect payments of UIF benefits to clients once all the necessary processes have been concluded. Processing offices are those centres where end-to-end services of the department are offered. He says to give effect to speed up the payment of UIF claims, the UIF is committed to the establishment of assessor and employer services’ posts in labour centres nationally. He says the department had been rendering the services from its provincial office in Bloemfontein. “Currently, these services are centralised in the provincial office and once applications are pro­cessed, they are sent to the said office for payment. This process has been identified as one of the hindrances to the effective delivery of quality and real-time services to the clients. “Thus, a decision was taken to decentralise it (Paymaster services) to labour centres,” said Ramokoena. “As part of this roll out, we are busy training officials who will assume responsibilities associated with Paymaster. Training has already been given to labour centres at Phuthaditjhaba, Harri­smith and Bethlehem. “Welkom, Kroonstad, Bloemfontein and Botshabelo will also receive training in the coming weeks,” says Dr Nandipha Kahla, acting chief director for the Free State. Zastron and Petrusburg’s labour centres will not be converted due to lower volumes of applications received, says the department.