Iavan Pijoos Western Cape Premier Helen Zille at the Newlands spring in Cape Town. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – In the event that Day Zero becomes a reality in Cape Town, the SAPS has devised a plan for police officers, the military and traffic officers to help monitor water distribution points across the metro. Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said in a statement on Wednesday
that Provincial Commissioner Major General Khombinkosi Jula had led a strategy
meeting to the cabinet on how the security cluster would keep the province
secured. Zille's spokesperson Michael Mpofu said the strategy plan included the deployment of forces at the various points of distribution across the metro, regular patrols, and the escorting of water resources to critical points where necessary. It also included a 24-hour monitoring of crime hotspots. The SANDF, military police, law enforcement and traffic officers would provide additional support. Dam levels in the Western Cape are currently at 26.5%. READ: Cape Town water crisis: Maimane to give details on 'what's really happening' The City of Cape Town has previously said that, when storage reaches 13.5%, it will turn off most taps, leaving only vital services with access to water. Deputy Mayor Ian Neilson on Tuesday announced that Day Zero had been brought forward by nine days, to April 12, due to a drop in dam levels. On Monday, Zille said that she had written to President Jacob Zuma, asking for a national disaster to be declared after the likelihood of Day Zero was confirmed by the City of Cape Town. "The reason that I think it would be useful to declare a national state of disaster is because then everything is in place for anything that we need to do that may require us to shortcut certain systems," Zille said. 'Save water like your life depends on it' Mpofu said the provincial cabinet had resolved to take the necessary steps to recover the money from the national government to cover the cost of the current water crisis interventions. "The provision of bulk water supply is a national government mandate. Where water supply has to be increased in emergency circumstances by the province or the city, it amounts to an unfunded emergency mandate, for which the costs have to be recovered," Mpofu said. READ: Zille asks Zuma to declare national disaster, as Day Zero looms for Cape Town He said, according to the Constitution and the National Water Act, bulk water supply was a national competency of the Department of Water and Sanitation. According to Mpofu, managing the disaster would have to involve increasing bulk water supply, which the Western Cape government had to commission in the short term. In the meantime, Zille urged residents to stick to the limit of 50 litres per person per day. "While the Western Cape government continues to coordinate the current disaster, we can still avoid day zero if everyone remains within the limit of 50 litres per person per day. Save water like your life depends on it, because it does," Zille said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  