Ohene Yaw Ampofo-Anti Constitutional Court (Ashraf Hendricks, GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories When can a landlord evict law-abiding tenants in order to effect refurbishments? And when can a landlord evict tenants for this reason on an urgent basis? These two questions are currently before the Constitutional Court in an application for leave to appeal an eviction that the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg ordered on May 23, 2018, GroundUp reported. Background The case concerns the fate of more than 50 tenants of a derelict building in Hillbrow, some of whom have lived on the property for as long as 25 years. The building is owned by Lewray Investments and managed by Urban Taskforce Investments. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. The building was erected in 1954. It is currently in a poor condition and in need of refurbishment. The parties do not dispute this. What is in dispute however, is what process must be followed to effect refurbishments and what the respective rights of the tenants and landlord are in these circumstances. In January 2018, the landlord provided the tenants with a notice to vacate the property for refurbishments. In the notice, the landlord offered to relocate the tenants to another building which it owns. Alternatively, it offered the tenants a R5 000 cash payment as compensation. The tenants interpreted the notice as an eviction notice and referred a dispute to the Rental Housing Tribunal. According to the Constitution, a person cannot be evicted without a court order. A landlord must follow the procedure set out by the Prevention of Illegal Eviction and Unlawful Occupation Act (PIE Act). The Rental Housing Tribunal made its ruling on March 5, 2018. It ruled that the landlord's notice was merely a notice to vacate the property and not an eviction notice. It also found that the notice provided the tenants with two options. Their first option was to vacate the property in which case they would be entitled not to pay rent for that period. Alternatively, they could remain on the property, but this would mean that they would have no claim for damages should they sustain injuries or damage during the refurbishment. The tribunal also said that should the tenants choose to vacate the property, the landlord must provide them with alternative accommodation and offer them the sum of R2 500 as compensation. After the tribunal's order, the landlord sent another notice to the tenants. This time it instructed the tenants to vacate the property immediately. The tenants refused to vacate. The landlord then approached the High Court on an urgent basis to evict the tenants. The High Court granted this order on May 23, 2018. But the tenants applied for leave to appeal which the court refused. They then approached the Supreme Court of Appeal for leave to appeal but this too was rejected. Urgency In a last effort to set aside the eviction, the tenants approached the Constitutional Court for relief. In their papers, they raise two main arguments. The first is that the High Court applied the wrong procedure for urgent evictions. The second is that the eviction was improper because it circumvented the PIE Act and related regulations. The tenants argued that the High Court applied the incorrect procedure for urgent evictions. This is because the PIE Act requires, among other things, that the property pose a real and imminent danger of substantial injury to person or property. Although the building was in a poor condition, this and other requirements in the PIE Act were not met. The tenants argue that the High Court conceded this, but instead of applying this test, which is set out in Section 5 of the PIE Act, the High Court applied the test for urgent applications, which is set out in the High Court rules. The tenants argue that the High Court's approach has grave consequences for poor and vulnerable tenants. This is because in adopting this approach, the High Court accepted financial expediency as a basis to grant an urgent eviction. The tenants argue that this infringes their constitutional rights and urgent evictions may only be granted under the strict circumstances laid down by the PIE Act. Improper eviction The second main argument the tenants raise is that the eviction violated the Gauteng Regulations to the Rental Housing Act. These regulate when tenants may be evicted in order to make refurbishments. The tenants highlight a few elements of the regulations. Firstly, they only permit the landlord to cancel the lease and evict a tenant if the property is uninhabitable. Secondly, they give the tenant the right to return to a property of the same size when the refurbishments are complete. Thirdly, the regulations provide that the tenants are entitled to not pay rent during the period of refurbishment. The tenants argue that the regulations try to bridge the power imbalance between poor and vulnerable tenants in derelict buildings and powerful landlords. The tenants argue that the High Court violated the regulations and the PIE Act in three ways. First, the High Court erred by finding that the tenants were "unlawful occupiers" in terms of the PIE Act and could therefore be evicted. This contravenes the PIE Act because it defines an unlawful occupier as someone who has no legal right to be on the property. However, it was common cause that the tenants paid all their rent which was due and the lease had not been cancelled. Secondly, the High Court acknowledged that the landlord intended to destroy the current flats and subdivide them. So the tenants' rights to return to the same property would be violated because they would be returning to smaller units. Thirdly, the High Court refused to stop the tenants' rent during the refurbishment period as required by the regulations. Relief sought The tenants argue that the eviction should be set aside and they must be housed in units of the same size and be entitled to a remission of rental. The landlord's arguments But the landlord argues that the question of the correct test for urgency is moot because the tenants have already been relocated following a consent order granted on September 8, 2018. As far as the question of the regulations and not having to pay rent go, the landlord argues that the Rental Housing Tribunal - not the Constitutional Court - is best tasked to resolve this question. This is because the question of whether a landlord may evict tenants to make refurbishments involves complex technical and economic issues that the tribunal is best tasked to answer. The landlord also argues that to make a return on its investment, it is obliged to subdivide the units; it is not economically viable to keep the units the current size. Why this case is important This case raises important questions about the competing interests of landlords and tenants in derelict buildings in Johannesburg. This is an issue not only in Johannesburg, but for cities across the country. As activists and communities fight against gentrification and urban renewal, the question of how these competing interests should be resolved is one the courts must urgently answer.   Trump nominates Kavanaugh for Supreme Court President Donald Trump chose Washington, D.C. appeals court judge Brett Kavanaugh as his choice to take over for retiring U.S. Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy. Julia Louis Dreyfus support U.S. Supreme court nominee accuser Actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus is throwing her support behind a woman who has accused U.S. Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct. Supreme Court rules in favour of bakery in ‘gay cake' case Supreme Court rules in favour of bakery in ‘gay cake' case Auto Industry faces challenges after SC Verdict Ongoing debate in the Supreme Court has created huge ambiguity and policy uncertainty. Supreme Court clears way for sports betting The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of New Jersey's bid to legalize sports gambling, clearing the way for other states to do the same. India's top court hears challenges to gay sex ban India's Supreme Court begins hearing arguments to throw out an old ban on homosexuality. Rental market: No room in the city Germany's cities are growing. In Frankfurt, Munich and Berlin, average earners can't find affordable apartments. Rents are rising and hundreds of would-be tenants compete for flats. The situation has forced some to take up residence in garden huts. Top court hears arguments in journalism case Vice Media's Ben Makuch says police shouldn't be able to use journalists to further their investigations, and is at the Supreme Court fighting a lower court ruling that he must give background materials on an accused terrorist to the RCMP. Rural Funds Group (ASX: RFF) portfolio and acquisitions update 04 Dec 2018 - Rural Funds Group (ASX: RFF) acquires new properties and undertakes transaction with JBS Australia. Reactions after Supreme Court hearing on abortion in Northern Ireland Supporters and opponents of abortion law reform in Northern Ireland react after the Supreme Court says legislation in the province clashes with the European Convention on Human Rights. Kavanaugh's next test: fitting into the Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh will be counting on a strong tradition of collegiality among Supreme Court justices when he takes his seat on the high court after a bitter Senate confirmation process.  Conway G. New twist from Sahara-SEBI slugfest Sahara Group to move Supreme Court against SEBI, demands Rs. 14, 000 Cr. The Penthouse Matthew must stage an opulent, two-story penthouse suite that belongs to a wealthy entrepreneur. Rural Funds Group (ASX:RFF) FY18 Results 31 Aug 2018 - Rural Funds Group Limited (ASX:RFF) General Manager - Investor Relations and Marketing, James Powell, talks FY18 results, the impact of the drought, and guidance for FY19. Controversial Sexy Property Sales Listing A real estate agent was having trouble gaining attention for a property... Paradise resident 'happy to have made it' after not evacuating 'Camp Fire' destroyed almost 90% of the buildings in the small town of Paradise, California. Of the few houses that survived, their owners who refused to evacuate, say they "feel pretty happy to have made it." Returning Cubans boost island's real estate market An estimated 40,000 Cubans have returned from abroad since 2013, lured home by government immigration reform that made it easier for expat Cubans to come home and buy property. High-tech car thieves drive off with Toyota in seconds Police are hunting high-tech car thieves after they were caught on video using sophisticated equipment to hack into and steal a vehicle. Mass evictions as Beijing is spruced up Some suburbs of Beijing are being torn down and residents evicted in a bid to gentrify the city. Them's Fightin' Words For the first time, stagers Bridget and Matthew must work together to stage an empty 3200 square foot house into an attractive family home. Rlay | Disrupt Berlin 2018 Rlay provides a developer framework for building blockchain-compatible data applications in days as opposed to months. Supreme Court of India decriminalises homosexuality In a historic verdict, the Supreme Court on Thursday decriminalised homosexuality between consenting adults by declaring Section 377, the penal provision which criminalised gay sex, as "manifestly arbitrary". Demand Momentum Looks Stable: Raymond, CEO Seeing good momentum building up for the lifestyle business and consumption led growth is integral to the India story said Sanjay Behl, CEO- Lifestyle, Raymond. Harry Styles busy working on second solo album Harry Styles has updated fans to let them know he is fully focused on his second studio album. PM: High Court's decision to overturn John Worboys raises 'serious concerns' The High Court decision to quash the release of black-cab rapist John Worboys gives rise to "serious concerns", Prime Minister Theresa May said as she praised the "brave" victims who brought the legal action. Centuria Metropolitan REIT (ASX:CMA) talks FY18 results & outlook 05 Nov 2018 - Centuria Metropolitan REIT Limited (ASX:CMA) Acting Trust Manager, Doug Hoskins, discusses CMA’s recent acquisitions and transformation. Why single women can't rent in Lagos Rose Uwane says she's struggling to rent an apartment in Lagos because she's a single woman and landlords assume she's a prostitute. Fairfax and Stuff merger declined by NZ Court of Appeal 25 Sep 2018 - Fairfax Media (ASX:FXJ) has announced that its bid to merge with New Zealand NZME subsidiary "Stuff" has been rejected by the court of Appeal. 'A landmark case in how courts approach cheating' London casino which withheld GBP7.7m in winnings says Supreme Court decision found top player was "cheating and dishonest". Centuria buy two new properties for $54.4m 04 Dec 2018 - Centuria Property Funds No. 2 as Responsible Entity of Centuria Industrial REIT (ASX:CIP), has acquired two new properties for a combined value of $54.4 million. Christian bakers delighted over 'gay cake' victory The Christian owners of a bakery at the centre of the so-called "gay cake" case express their "delight and relief" after winning a Supreme Court appeal over a claim that they had discriminated against a customer. Christian bakers win 'gay cake' Supreme Court appeal Supreme Court judge Lady Hale announces the owners of a bakery in Belfast have won a Supreme Court appeal over a finding that they discriminated against a customer by refusing to make a cake decorated with the words "Support Gay Marriage". NZME will not appeal proposed merger with Fairfax 24 Oct 2018 - NZME (ASX:NZM) will not appeal the Court of Appeal's decision in relation to the proposed merger of NZME and Fairfax's New Zealand subsidiary Stuff Limited. How investors expel tenants Real estate companies are cashing in big in Berlin. Tenants are struggling to keep up, because they can't afford the rent after a building's been renovated. They move out, and the price goes up. WATCH: High Court instructs government to draft a plan for District 6 restitutions Since the Restitution of Land Rights Act 22 of 1994 came into effect our government has failed to provide adequate restitution to the people of District Six - as well as having violated their constitutional  rights. Indonesian woman gets jail after exposing philandering boss An Indonesian woman who exposed her cheating boss has been slapped with a six-month jail term for her trouble. The supreme court's shock ruling overturned an earlier court decision that had cleared the woman, Baiq Nuril Maknun, of breaking a contr... Alfie Evans' dad: 'We're never going to back down' Footage from Alder Hey hospital and a neighbouring park as campaigners await news of the latest appeal by the parents of toddler Alfie Evans to continue his care.

His parents Tom Evans, 21, and Kate James, 20, are due to ask Court of Appeal judge... Shoplifter who sued police after being Tasered loses his case Warning: Viewers may find the following footage distressing.

Police video footage of shoplifter being Tasered in July 2013. 

Paul McClelland later sued Sussex Police for excessive force, but had his claim dismissed. WATCH: South Africa's Constitutional Court ruling on ousted prosecuting head explained The Constitutional Court found on Monday that the appointment of National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss Shaun Abrahams was unconstitutional and invalid. Here's what you need to know. Watch. 'One of the finest people' The president says his embattled Supreme Court nominee is "one of the finest people". Metcash to open new distribution centre in South Australia 19 Nov 2018 - Metcash (ASX:MTS) has inked a long term lease agreement with Charter Hall to build and lease a distribution centre at Gepps Cross in South Australia. Court pick vows independence, sidesteps questions Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump's Supreme Court nominee, embraced the importance of judicial independence on Wednesday during his U.S. Senate confirmation hearing but sidestepped questions from Democrats about whether a president possesses... NDP calls for Supreme Court reference over Trans Mountain dispute NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh is calling for a Supreme Court reference question from B.C. and Ottawa to help resolve the dispute over the Trans Mountain pipeline expansion. Singh says a joint reference is an "efficient way" forward. U.S. Supreme Court may face transgender troop ban The Trump administration is petitioning the Supreme Court to review decisions by lower courts to block the president's attempts to bar certain transgender individuals from military service. But if agreed, it would circumvent another layer of court ap US in Supreme Court heaven or hell Fear or opportunity? Liberals and conservatives see vacancy on America's top court very differently. Supreme Court victory for heterosexual couple in civil partnership fight A heterosexual couple fighting for the right to have a civil partnership have won a ruling at the UK's highest court that they are being discriminated against. India's top court rules temple must allow women India's top court lifts a ban that prevented women and girls between the age of 10 and 50 from entering a prominent Hindu temple in the southern state of Kerala. SC questions Verma's counsel The Supreme Court today asked what was the protocol if a CBI chief was caught red-handed taking bribes and questioned whether such a chief deserved to continue even for a minute if he was. Centuria Industrial REIT (ASX:CIP) talks FY18 results & outlook 21 Aug 2018 - Centuria Industrial REIT Limited (ASX:CIP) Fund Manager, Ross Lees talks FY18 results, portfolio metrics and trends. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  