Colin Hendricks Odin Adams, Chanray Adams, Lydon Adams. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories At just six months old little Odin Adams has faced many challenges. He’s had five operations and weighs just 4,4kg – half of what he should at his age. But doctors still don’t know what’s wrong with the baby boy from Paarl, near Cape Town. When Odin was just five weeks old he was admitted to hospital in Paarl because he couldn’t keep milk down, his mom Chanray, 30, tells us. And now – three hospitals and consultations with various paediatricians, physiotherapists and dieticians plus surgeries later – she’s still now closer to an answer. "They say his body can’t digest protein and fat," Chanray says. But other than that, there are no details as to what may be causing the baby’s illness. Odin has been operated on so many times that surgeons had to shave his head to find a suitable vein to insert an intravenous drip. He was in hospital from June until October, during which time several blood tests were performed. But by the time he was discharged, doctors said the results didn’t show any abnormalities and he just needed to gain weight. Chanray, a clerk at the traffic department, and her husband, Lydon, 29, a sales administrator, are struggling with Odin’s escalating medical bills. Though their medical aid has paid for his hospital stay, the family still need another R100 000 to dover expenses. Feeding Odin through a tube in his stomach is a laborious process too. But despite everything Chanray is happy that her baby will be spending Christmas with his family, which also includes Odin’s siblings, Chyler, 8, and Scarlett, 2. When he was born on 30 May this year, there was no indication that Odin was anything but healthy. "I never felt as if there was anything to worry about while I was pregnant with him," Chanray recalls. He was born a healthy 3,44kg and seemed perfectly fine. But that all changed a few weeks later. Odin is doing better now, Chanray says. He’s not vomiting as often but his weight is still too low. She hopes her son will be able to lead a healthy life. "I wish for someone to hear our story and tell us their child has it too – and how it can be cured."    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.