Pelane Phakgadi WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. Gauteng Metrorail suspects arson may have been behind Monday's train fire in Mayfair, Johannesburg, which left a trailer and a motor coach worth R8m gutted. Metrorail spokesperson Lillian Mofokeng on Monday said there was no casualties in the latest incident. In October, two coaches also belonging to Metrorail were set alight on separate platforms at the Germiston station. Mofokeng at that time said that the damage caused by the suspected arsonists was estimated at more than R6m. In July, about 50 commuters had to escape to safety when a train caught fire in Booysens‚ Johannesburg. No commuters were injured in that incident as well. No arrests have yet been made for the most recent attack.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Three Major Wildfires Force Thousands to Flee in California Three Major Wildfires Force Thousandsto Flee in California Two of the fires are miles from a bar in Thousand Oaks where 12 people were killed in a mass shooting. Voluntary evacuations of around 75,000 homes in Ventura County have been called for b... Fire tornado sucks firefighters' hose into the sky A fire tornado sucks the British Columbia Wildfire Service's hose into the sky in Canada. It threw burning logs across the guard for nearly an hour and pulled the hose over 100 feet in the air before melting it. Turkey touting kicks off Christmas at famous London meat market Hoards of punters gather to bid on last-minute meats for their Christmas meal at an open-air auction at London's Smithfield Market. Those bidding for bargains and the butcher behind the auction say the 150 year-old tradition will carry on, despite... Khumbula - Dandyness with a political message In South Africa a collective of fashion-forward dandies are challenging stereotypes about life in the country's townships. The group, called Khumbala, hails from Alexandra in Johannesburg. Dusk falls on fiery Champs Elysées after day of protests After a day of clashes between protesters and police on the Champs-Elysees in Paris, debris, fires and smoke blanket the famed avenue as fire fighters work to put fires out and repair the damage. Saddleworth Moor fire now being treated as arson A blaze on Saddleworth Moor which fire crews have been fighting for more than a week is being treated as arson. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday. Greece fires: "Prayers were answered" Susan Margaret Stephos speaks about her experience of being caught up in the wildfires in Greece. Tourists flee France fires Wildfires in south-eastern France have forced the evacuation of 10,000 people overnight, officials say. Ice block art glimmers in London to warn against climate change Some 24 ice blocks are on display outside London's Tate Modern and six others dotted around different locations in the city to alert passersby to the dangers of global warming. The new installation "Ice Watch", created by renowned artist Olafur El... WATCH: 'Total Shutdown Gauteng' hands over letter of demand at JSE Members of the Total Shutdown Gauteng grouping marched on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Tuesday, demanding a full audit of coloured representation in listed businesses and a commitment to rectifying the lack of coloured representivity. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. Video 'shows arrest of man charged over fatal Worsley arson' Two people have been charged with murder after a house fire left three children dead.


Zac Bolland and Courtney Brierley have appeared in the dock together at Manchester Magistrates' Court and both were remanded in custody until Thursday. Slovakian firefighters take part in fire drill in UK Six fire safety members of the Slovakian Air Force have come to the UK as members of Nato to take part in fire safety training - specifically in how to extinguish major aircraft fires. Primary school damaged by major fire on eve of new term Firefighters are tackling a blaze at Roding Primary School on Hewett Road, Dagenham, London Fire Brigade said. UKIP holds pro-Brexit rally in London UKIP and far-right activist Tommy Robinson hold a pro-Brexit protest in London's Parliament Square. Hundreds tackle Australia bushfire Hundreds of firefighters tackle the blaze as residents are displaced. The ever-changing graffiti canvas of Sao Paulo's Vila Madalena is a once in a lifetime experience The name says it all. It's the backdrop and set for insta-selfies and professional shoots alike. Migrant caravan: Hundreds rush border, tear gas fired Hundreds of migrants attempt to breach the US-Mexico border fence, but are stopped by US border officers who begin firing tear gas. Global Teen: Justin from Johannesburg 16-year-old Justin Bosman lives with his mother and two sisters in the Hillbrow district of Johannesburg. He's passionate about chess, and wants to become a lawyer or teacher. 'Deliberate' drone flights cripple London airport London's Gatwick Airport will face at least another 24 hours of disruption after several "deliberate" airspace violations by drones forced the travel hub to shut down on safety fears, stranding thousands of holiday travelers. Wind gusts hamper battles against California wildfire A wildfire in Northern California continued to burn on Wednesday and the National Weather Service is warning that wind gusts of up to 25 miles per hour could hamper firefighters efforts to contain it. Jane Lanhee Lee reports. Galapagos' Sierra Negra spews lava, ash The Sierra Negra volcano in Ecuador expels rivers of burning lava that flow through areas of the Galapagos National Park amid clouds of smoke and ash. Pandora fires CEO as new jewellery fails to charm Pandora's chief executive, Anders Colding Friis, is stepping down, the firm said on Thursday, just days after warning of lower sales and profit margins this year. As Francis Maguire reports, shares in the Danish jewellery maker, known for its silv... WATCH: New footage has emerged following clash by 2 rival church groups in Joburg New video footage has emerged of the widely reported clash outside the International Pentecost Holiness Church in Zuurbekom, west of Johannesburg last Thursday. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. VIDEO | Festive blitz: 11 Joburg nightclubs raided during late night police operation Eleven places of entertainment were raided in the Johannesburg inner city on Tuesday night as part of the Buya Mthetho campaign. Third firefighter killed responding to CA wildfire A mechanic helping to fight the Carr Fire in California died in a traffic collision on Thursday becoming the third firefighter to die from that blaze. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. Local celebs shine on SA Fashion Week red carpet Local celebs came dressed in the finest fashions as they stepped onto the red carpet at the Cruz Vodka SA Fashion Week launch party in Johannesburg. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... Massive wildfire becomes largest in California history Two California wildfires have merged, creating the largest blaze in the state's history. Firefighters have only contained a small part of the Mendocino Complex fire in the northern part of the state, and hot weather is setting the stage for the fi... WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. Zinke: California fire 'worst' he's ever seen Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke joined California Gov. Jerry Brown on a visit to Paradise on Wednesday, saying it was the worst fire devastation he had ever seen. Mexican firefighters help battle Shovel Lake wildfire in B.C. A crew of Mexican firefighters helped deal with smouldering hotspots in areas burned by the Shovel Lake wildfire, near Endako, B.C., on Thursday. The blaze is the largest of nearly 600 wildfires burning in the province. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Firefighters run Soweto Marathon in 18kg gear to honour fallen colleagues Three Johannesburg firefighters ran the Old Mutual Soweto Marathon on Sunday in bunker gear, to commemorate their fallen colleagues. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. A helicopter view of Ontario forest fire damage Smoke and scorched trees can be seen from a helicopter near Britt, Ontario, where the forest fire known as Parry Sound 33 is burning. A fire behaviour analyst says the fire is not currently expanding. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.