Kaveel Singh PAC leader Narius Moloto. (PHOTO: Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) maintains that reports on its "elective conference" are false and that members of the party organised an illegal meeting. Party spokesperson Kenneth Mokgatlhe on Monday said the party held its last elective conference in December 2015, with the next only scheduled for the year 2020. "The PAC learned with regret of some of its members who organised an illegal meeting in Kimberley and started electing themselves as the leadership of the PAC. This is a sham meeting and PAC condemns it with the contempt it deserves." Mokgatlhe said the party was governed by its own constitution. "We do not do as we please but abide by the constitution which advances discipline within its members." He said the "rogue members" have been distracting the party from 1994, "echoing messages of divisions not only within the party but also outside the PAC". He added that rule of law was paramount in a democratic society. "Any disregard of the law runs counter to the sacrifice made by those who formed the PAC and subsequently pursued and promoted and armed struggle to destroy the apartheid dictatorship."  Corruption case resumes against Kenya's Deputy chief justice In Nairobi, the corruption case resumes against Kenya's Deputy chief justice, Philomena Mwilu. The prosecution have appointed the Queen’s Counsel, Khawar Qureshi, to lead their team. Cousin of jailed Sakharov Prize winner Oleg Sentsov speaks AFP speaks to the cousin of jailed Ukrainian film director Oleg Sentsov, winner of this year's Sakharov prize for human rights in October. Sentsov, who recently ended a hunger strike, is serving a 20-year sentence in a prison in the Russian Arctic. WATCH: Senior lawyer dragged into car and kidnapped 'for department's R80m budget' Charity Nzuza, executive officer of the National Forum on the Legal Profession, and a colleague were kidnapped from outside her home in Centurion on Wednesday afternoon. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. Centrum's Feet On Street Conference Have ARC representatives for perspective on NPA resolution & recoveries said Ashish Shah , Head Research, Centrum broking Ltd. Violence against Rohingya amounts to 'genocide' A human rights law group commissioned by the US State Department to investigate atrocities against the Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar has called for the urgent establishment of a criminal tribunal to bring those responsible to justice. #Myanmar, #Roh... Thousands rally against Duterte's proposed martial law extension Activists marched to the presidential palace in Manila on International Human Rights Day to protest against President Rodrigo Duterte's proposed extension of martial law in Mindanao. Building Africa's Technology Ecosystem Building Africa's Technology Ecosystem Charlottesville white nationalist found guilty on all counts A Virginia jury on Friday found a white nationalist who drove his car into a group of counterprotesters in Charlottesville in August of 2017 guilty of first-degree murder and 9 other charges. Eddie Izzard: People's vote on Brexit is 'inevitable' Eddie Izzard says a people's vote on Brexit is 'inevitable' as people realise how negative the country has been since voting to leave the European Union. He was awarded an honorary doctorate for his outstanding achievements as a comedian, actor, w... The Top 5 Best Art & Cultural Museums in Africa Africa has no shortage of heritage, history and culture. And where better soak in all this knowledge than of of Africa's many incredible art and cultural museums? MP cradles baby in Commons during push for proxy voting A former minister cradled her baby on Parliament's famous green benches - in what is thought to be a first during a Commons debate. Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. Brexit: What are the options? With Boris Johnson warning that the Government is heading for a 'car crash' Brexit unless it ditches Theresa May's Chequers plans, what are the possible outcomes from the EU withdrawal process? Cohen pleads the fifth in Stormy Daniels' lawsuit U.S. President Donald Trump's lawyer, Michael Cohen, has decided to plead the fifth amendment in a lawsuit filed against him by adult film star Stormy Daniels. PM suffers humiliating Brexit vote defeat MPs vote to give parliament the final say on the Brexit deal. The government was defeated on the matter by 309 to 305 votes. 'People's Vote' call for 2nd Brexit vote preparations Representatives of the 'People's Vote' campaign hold a press conference reacting to Theresa May's decision to delay a key Brexit vote, at which they call for the government to start making contingency plans for a second Brexit referendum. Government confident on getting Brexit vote through Cabinet members say they are confident the Brexit deal will be voted though. Thousands protest over Catalonia raids Spain's government has stepped up efforts to halt an independence vote in Catalonia they call illegal. No-deal Brexit will bring tangle of red tape, Britain warns companies Sterling slid on Thursday as the government stepped up its plans for a no-deal Brexit, once again reviving concerns about the currency's fate if Britain left the European Union without having agreed new trade arrangements. Rosanna Philpott reports US: 'We will remember this vote' US Ambassador Nikki Haley warns that US won't forget the countries who voted to rebuke it at the UN. Gay rights supporters celebrate failure of vote on same sex marriage ban Gay rights supporters celebrated after a referendum to change Romania's constitution to prevent same sex couples from securing the right to marry failed to draw enough voters to validate the result on Sunday. Facebook, Twitter fall as they face U.S. Congress Shares of Facebook and Twitter fell as their top executives testified before the U.S. Congress, defending the companies against, what lawmakers see as, a failure to combat continuing foreign efforts to influence U.S. politics. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. U.S. judge strikes down Mississippi abortion law A U.S. federal judge has struck down a Mississippi law that bans most abortions after 15 weeks, ruling that it "unequivocally" violates women's constitutional rights. Taiwan gets ready to vote on gay marriage Taiwan could become the first place in Asia to legalize gay marriage. Last year the constitutional court declared that same-sex couples had the right to legally marry. Now, the public will get a chance to vote on whether that becomes law. My campaign to allow hijabs in US Congress US Somali Congresswoman-elect Ilhan Omar wants a law change to allow the wearing of hijabs in Congress. Huawei executive granted bail A Canadian court on Tuesday granted bail to a top executive of Huawei Technologies while she awaits a hearing for extradition to the United States, a move that could help placate Chinese officials angered by her arrest. Jane Lanhee Lee reports. Protesters including Susan Sarandon arrested in U.S. Senate building sit-in over immigration Some 600 protesters were arrested during an occupation of a U.S. Senate office building in Washington on Thursday, where they decried U.S. President Donald Trump's "zero- tolerance" stance on illegal immigration. Venezuela protesters block city streets Protesters are unhappy with the president's changes to the constitution. Obamacare ruling thrusts health debate into spotlight Republicans and Democrats found themselves forced to once again argue the merits and deficiencies of the 2010 Affordable Care Act after a U.S. federal judge ruled that Obamacare was unconstitutional. Protesters join anti-government march in Budapest Protesters take part in anti-government demonstrations in Budapest, as people are angry at Prime Minister Viktor Orban's controversial new laws on workers rights and the judicial system. Trump ex-lawyer Cohen given 3 years in prison President Donald Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen was sentenced to three years in prison on Wednesday. Life-term recommended for Charlottesville killer A jury has recommended that James Alex Fields Jr., the white supremacist who rammed his car into a group of counterprotesters at a 'Unite The Right' rally last year killing  Heather Heyer, spend the rest of his life in prison. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Pot-eating cop ‘pretty distraught’ over sentence: Lawyer A former Toronto police officer who stole and ate a marijuana-laced chocolate bar seized in a raid, received a nine-month conditional sentence on Monday. Vittorio Dominelli’s lawyer said they had hoped for a discharge. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. Faith healer accused of sexual abuse turns himself in A Brazilian faith healer who was accused of sexual abuse by more than 300 women has turned himself in a day after being officially ruled a fugitive. WATCH: High Court instructs government to draft a plan for District 6 restitutions Since the Restitution of Land Rights Act 22 of 1994 came into effect our government has failed to provide adequate restitution to the people of District Six - as well as having violated their constitutional  rights. Trump's ex-lawyer Cohen arriving at court ahead of sentencing President Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen arriving at court with his family ahead of sentencing. Cohen is one of several members of Trump's team who have run afoul of the law, but the only one to belong to Trump's inner circle. Catch quick political updates for the day Congress divided over CM pick and other top political news for the day. Dow, S&P slip in choppy session The S&P 500 and Dow ended a volatile session down slightly on Tuesday as investor optimism over China-U.S. trade talks was offset by U.S. President Donald Trump's threat to shut down the U.S. government. "We accept the people's mandate with humility," PM Modi Political Analyst, Sanjay Kumar on the big win of Congress. Rafale Deal: SC Junks Pleas The Supreme Court today dismissed all petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into India’s Rafale deal with France. Does this verdict revive BJP's hopes after assembly losses and does it come as a setback for Congress President Rahul Gandhi? Cat... LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Bringing It Home Stager, Dina turns a critical eye toward her own home, as she prepares the four-bedroom property for sale.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.