Jan Gerber DA chief whip John Steenhuisen and DA leader Mmusi Maimane provides the media with their party's overview of 2018 on Monday. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories There is no good ANC and a bad ANC, there is only the ANC. This was the message from DA leader Mmusi Maimane and chief whip John Steenhuisen as they reviewed President Cyril Ramaphosa's and Parliament's 2018 performance. It is probably the official opposition's last report card of this kind ahead of next year's election, which will be in May. "In a year that was billed to be one of fundamental reform, the ANC has continued to fail South Africa. In government, all of the crises that existed at the end of the Zuma presidency have worsened in the first year of the Ramaphosa presidency," reads their statement. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. "In Parliament, the ANC has reverted to their default position of complete deference to the new president, rather than holding him and his government accountable." Maimane said even though there was a change in leadership, there wasn't a change in the country's direction. "Our nation is in a difficult position," he said, citing economic growth of 0.7%, the prospect of a "black Christmas" due to load shedding and 10 million citizens who are not going to find work. "No real structural reforms have been done," Maimane said. "Our country needs structural reform." Maimane also claimed that Ramaphosa wasn't really in charge of the ANC. "Not a single citizen implicated in corruption has been arrested. We may run the risk of thinking state capture was a Zuma project. It was not." "It is a myth that there is a good ANC and a bad ANC. There is just the ANC," Maimane said. Parliament 'should have been far more robust' Speaking about Parliament, Steenhuisen said: "Of the 15 debates that shaped the national agenda in Parliament this year, all confirmed an inconvenient truth: there is no good ANC or bad ANC, only the ANC. The outcomes of the debates on the recession recovery, fuel price increase and VBS bank heist continue to serve as the eulogy of the organisation." Steenhuisen also criticised Parliament for allowing Deputy President David Mabuza to get away without holding the requisite one question session per month in the National Assembly in the fourth quarter. "It speaks volumes when you allow an individual to escape accountability," Steenhuisen said. "Parliament should have been far more robust. Parliament should be ashamed that they allowed this to happen." He commented on the number of questions departments answered in the National Council of Provinces. According to him, the departments of communications (34%), finance (34%), water and sanitation (32%), social development (28%) and health (28%) answered the least questions. "It remains an offence to the democratic process that the worst-performing ANC government departments have also been the least accountable," he said. DA's immigration policy Maimane and Steenhuisen were asked about the DA's immigration policy as part of its election campaign, and whether it fits in with the upsurge of populist anti-immigration policies worldwide. "You don't become xenophobic by speaking about an issue that affects citizens." He said citizens "feel they need control" of the borders, and everyone's rights should be guaranteed, including refugees and asylum seekers. "No one is anti-immigration," Maimane said. He said people entering the country should be properly documented and added that, if the DA didn't speak about it, they would allow populists without substance to frame the debate. "It would be irresponsible not to address the topic. To not manage it would be irresponsible and would enhance xenophobia." Maimane also condemned Black First Land First leader Andile Mngxitama's recent remarks over the weekend. Mngxitama reportedly called for the killing of whites, their dogs and their cats. "Hate speech must always be spoken out against. Mngxitama's comments cheapen people rights to human dignity which is a fundamental tenant of what liberal democracy depends on," Maimane said. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.