Canny Maphanga WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". A recent painting by controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu says if it had been former president Jacob Zuma depicted in his "the boers are to blame" painting, instead of businessman Markus Jooste, he would not have been arrested. He displayed the painting outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday. "I took my painting of Jacob Zuma raping Madiba and displayed it at Nelson Mandela Square under the Mandela statue in Sandton and I wasn't arrested, but now that it is a white person I am arrested," Mabulu told News24 at a briefing in Johannesburg on Thursday. "Everyone who has raped the country since 1994, whether it be Jacob Zuma or Markus Jooste, is depicted in my artwork in a different way, looting is looting, that's why I depict it as raw as it is," he explained. On Wednesday evening, Gauteng police said Mabulu was not arrested, but was merely removed from outside the JSE after he displayed his painting on Wednesday. "He was not arrested. He was removed from where he was exhibiting his work. The reason for the removal was because he was not permitted to display his artwork there. He was warned not to return there, it was not an arrest it was a removal," spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele told News24. No charges were filed. 'Not a marketing strategy' The painting that Mabulu exhibited depicts former Steinhoff CEO Jooste receiving fellatio from a black woman and Eugene Terreblanche sitting on a toilet while a black boy hangs upside down next to him. Pigs' heads with money stuffed in their mouths were placed next to the canvas. "What is depicted is how I feel about the boers, they come from a legacy of inflicting violence to people that can be easily victimised, which is black people – we are being sacrificed here," he further explained. "This is not a marketing strategy, this painting is not even for sale – it is depicting reality," he added. He claimed that the police's actions on Wednesday were a performance and for the benefit of the white man. "These policemen are so programmed to inflict violence on people, they had no reason to arrest me and they didn't even read my rights, they just took me to the police station," he said. READ: UPDATE: Ayanda Mabulu warned not to return to scene exhibiting ‘blame it on the boers’ artwork The controversial artist chose the JSE as the "perfect home" for the exhibition of his artwork after it was allegedly rejected by the Constitutional Hill precinct due to its "controversial nature". "I wouldn't paint this image if there was nothing tangible to talk about, I took this painting to the streets because it's addressing a subject (the Steinhoff saga) that is hidden in the boardrooms, it is not going to the eyes and ears of poor black people in the streets of this country," he said. Mabulu alleges that the artwork is still in the possession of the Morningside police. The police, however, have not confirmed this. The artist says he has laid a complaint with the Public Protector's office following Wednesday's incident. "As long as you speak truth to power as a black man, you will always be a subject of violence. "I filed a complaint through a letter to the Public Protector on Thursday because my rights were violated, and my paintings are still in the possession [of] the police," he said.  Black Friday chaos captured on camera in South Africa Shoppers in Potchefstroom sprint into Game as the store opens at midnight as Black Friday chaos hits South Africa. Some bargain hunters chose the risky route of climbing over trollies. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. 'I never thought we would choose corruption' Makhosi Khoza received death threats after branding President Jacob Zuma "a disgrace". WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. 'Black people think I have white privilege' Albino model Joanne Dion struggles to fit into black or white communities. Does the royal wedding improve race relations in the UK? Anti-racism campaigner Adam Elliot-Cooper talks about the contradictions of the royal wedding. Does the introduction of Meghan Markle to the royal family have an impact to ordinary black people on the ground? WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. 'Do Not Touch My Hair' Grazia is the latest UK magazine to be criticised for airbrushing the hair of black women. Lupita Nyong'o complained she'd been made to appear more "Eurocentric" on the front cover Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. WATCH: Looters target truck trapped by too low bridge The driver of this RTT Intelligent Logistics truck found himself stuck between a bridge he could not pass under and a group of waiting looters late last week. South Africa's Winnie Madikizela-Mandela dies aged 81 Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a prominent anti-apartheid activist and the ex-wife of Nelson Mandela, has died at the age of 81. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. Was Mandela a hero or a 'sell-out'? The BBC asked young South Africans for their views on anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... WATCH: Andile Mngxitama provides 'context' to "kill white people" statement Black First Land First (BLF) held a press conference on Tuesday to address concerns raised over a statement made by party leader, Andile Mngxitama. WATCH. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels for summit EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels to review relations and discuss ways of intensifying and broadening their cooperation, at the 7th summit between the two sides, which takes place 100 years after Nelson Mandela's birth. The summit will... WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. 'Rainbow nation' is still a dream in South Africa With few prospects for the future, the freedom Nelson Mandela fought for has little to offer young people. Today's South Africa has many troubles, including a high proportion of people without jobs. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.