Mxolisi Mngadi Lightning (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two elderly women died instantly when they were struck by lightning in Ngqamakhwe, Eastern Cape, provincial police said on Friday. Police spokesperson Captain Jackson Manatha said it was believed that the deceased had been attending a homecoming ceremony for initiates when the lightning struck. "An 84-year-old woman and another, 64, were struck to death by lightning on Thursday at about 14:00 at Ntlebi Locality, Matolweni Village, in Ngqamakhwe." - Health24: Lightning safety tips Manatha said an inquest docket had been opened by the Ngqamakhwe police. "The identities of both deceased people are being withheld, as some of their close relatives are yet to be informed of their deaths," he said. Meanwhile, a 40-year-old man and his young nephew died after being struck by lightning while taking refuge under a tree during a thunderstorm in Dihlophaneng Ga-Molepo on Thursday afternoon. The victims were taken to the local clinic where they were certified dead on arrival. On Thursday, the South African Weather Service issued a warning of severe thunderstorms across the North West, Gauteng, the Free State and Mpumalanga for Friday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Lightning strike scares children out trick-or-treating You expect to get a fright or two when you're out trick-or-treating on Halloween - but not like this.

It wasn't ghosts, vampires or witches that gave these kids a scare, but a sudden nearby lightning strike. UK hit by 15,000-20,000 lightning strikes The UK was struck by lightning between 15,000 and 20,000 times as the "mother of all thunderstorms" rolled across southern England overnight. Electrical storms light up UK skies Some of the best footage of last night's light show and the 15,000 lightning strikes that came with it. Travellers at Stansted Airport endure Bank Holiday weekend transport chaos Flights from Stansted Airport have been disrupted after the fuelling system was damaged by a lightning strike overnight and many travellers have found themselves unable to fly. F-35 gets chance to shine on the high seas A peak at the U.S. Navy's efforts to move its version of the controversial F-35 fighter jet closer being fully operational. Activists decry Chinese 'dog meat festival' Residents of China's southern city of Yulin defended eating dog meat to celebrate the summer solstice, as animal rights activists seek new ways to pressure organizers to cancel the annual festival. GBP850m Sea Ceptor missile defence system enters into service New missile defence system Sea Ceptor, which will protect the Royal Navy's aircraft carriers, has entered into service, the Defence Secretary will announce on Thursday. Unlocking Evolution Examines the life of groundbreaking New Zealand researcher and lightning rod for controversy, Allan Wilson, who revolutionised the ideas behind evolution. MPs and US Ambassador try their hand at 'flying' an F-35 jet MPs, lords and the US ambassador have all tried their hand at flying one of Britain's new multimillion-pound stealth fighter jets by climbing into the cockpit of a flight simulator. China's new military toy in 60 seconds China's latest point of pride is an aircraft carrier that will carry fighter jets, helicopters and weapons.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.