Jan Gerber Patricia de Lille announces her new political party (Jan Gerber, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Patricia de Lille isn't the first politician who thought it was a GOOD idea to start a new party after an acrimonious departure. Five parties currently represented in Parliament started after its leader left or was kicked out of one - including one of the more established parties. United Democratic Movement (UDM) Back in 1996, Bantu Holomisa, then Deputy Minister of Environment and Tourism was expelled from the ANC after his testimony to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission about irregularities at the Transkei administration. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. Previously, he was the commander of the Transkei Defence Force and head of the Transkei government after ousting Stella Sicgau. Meanwhile, former National Party (NP) minister and chief negotiator at Codesa, Roelf Meyer, left the NP. Both politicians independently explored starting a party. After a few meetings, they decided to join forces and the UDM was born. In 1998, Holomisa was elected the party's president - a position he has held ever since. The party participated in the 1999 elections, garnering 3.4% of the national vote for 14 seats in the National Assembly. The party won nine seats in the Eastern Cape legislature and one seat in each of the legislatures of Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo and Mpumalanga. Meyer left politics soon after. Since 1999, the party's fortunes faded somewhat, with a decline to nine seats in the National Assembly in 2004 and four seats in 2009. The party maintained this number of seats in 2014. African People's Convention (APC) In 2007, Themba Godi made history when he was the first MP who crossed the floor to form his own party - the APC - while keeping his seat in Parliament, despite leaving the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC) amid a fractious leadership battle. He has held this seat as the only APC member in the National Assembly in subsequent elections, where he chairs the important watchdog committee, the Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa). Congress of the People (Cope) In the wake of the ANC's contentious national conference in Polokwane, where Jacob Zuma was elected ANC president, and Thabo Mbeki's removal as president in 2008, disaffected former ANC members Mosiuoa Lekota, Mbhazima Shilowa and Mluleki George decided to contest the 2009 general election. In that election, Cope garnered 7.46% of the vote, winning 30 seats in the National Assembly. A bitter leadership dispute involving Lekota and Shilowa, which went to court, followed and the party floundered in the 2014 election, getting only 0.67% of the vote and three seats in the National Assembly, and leaving Lekota to eat his hat. National Freedom Party (NFP) In January 2011, Zanele kaMagwaza-Msibi formed the NFP after an acrimonious departure from the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), after her supporters openly campaigned for her to become the party's leader, with some expelled. With KwaZulu-Natal as its stronghold, the party received 2.4% of the votes cast in South Africa in the municipal elections of 2011, and 10.4% of the votes cast in KwaZulu-Natal, gaining an outright majority in the eDumbe Local Municipality, and in the process, weakening the IFP's support base. In the 2014 general elections, the NFP received 1.57% of the vote, obtaining six seats in the National Assembly and six seats in the KwaZulu-Natal legislature. Before the 2016 municipal elections disaster struck, the party failed to pay its registration fee on time and was barred from participating in the election, with IFP making up most of the ground lost to the NFP. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) In April 2012, Julius Malema's fiery reign as president of the ANC Youth League came to an end as he was expelled after a disciplinary process, together with his trusty lieutenant, Floyd Shivambu. After farming cabbages in the political wilderness for a few months, Malema announced the EFF in June 2013 - about 11 months before the 2014 elections. Shivambu is at his side again. After a donation from a cigarette smuggler to pay the Independent Electoral Commission's registration fee, the EFF participated in the 2014 election, garnering 6% of the vote for 25 seats in the National Assembly. In the 2016 municipal elections, the party's overall support grew to about 8.3%, giving it a kingmaker role in the metro's of Nelson Mandela Bay, Johannesburg and Tshwane, where the ANC lost its majority. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng. Togo: thousands protest in bid to stop elections taking place Thousands of people march through the streets of Lomé, responding to a call from the main opposition coalition, demanding that the electoral process be halted before the December 20 legislative elections. The leaders of this group of 14 opposition... WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. Voters hope for jobs after Madagascar's election No matter who wins Madagascar's presidential election, first-time voter Joseph Rodolphe Solo hopes they will bring jobs to a country shackled by poverty. The Bumpy Roads of South Africa's Wild Coast It's very easy to get lost on South Africa's Wild Coast, wandering its many magical beaches, combing for lost relics washed up by the ocean, or listening to the lively twitterings of the birds that are unseen in the forests' canopies. AP explains: unresolved races in Fla, Georgia AP's Washington Bureau chief Julie Pace explains why outstanding races in Florida and Georgia have become so significant, that even President Donald Trump has taken to twitter about one of them. Georgia holds second round of hotly contested presidential vote Georgians vote in the second round of a presidential election seen as a crucial test for the increasingly unpopular ruling party led by a billionaire oligarch. Madagascar: polling stations open for 2018 election Madagascan voters head to the polling stations for the first round of the 2018 presidential election. It is a tense election, dominated by three former heads of state, all of whom have been at the heart of the political crises that have shaken the... Vote counting begins in Madagacar's presidential election Vote counting begins in Madagascar's presidential election, with the three front-runners all former heads of state facing-off amid efforts to defuse a political crisis. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Waste not: South Africa makes world's first human urine brick One day, when nature calls, your urine could be put to better use than to be flushed down the loo. Instead it could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels for summit EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels to review relations and discuss ways of intensifying and broadening their cooperation, at the 7th summit between the two sides, which takes place 100 years after Nelson Mandela's birth. The summit will... WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Ruling party candidate leads in Georgia presidential vote Georgia's ruling party candidate, Salome Zurabishvili, was leading after voting closed in a hotly contested presidential election, an exit poll showed, with the opposition already calling for protests over fraud. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. Judge denies Scott bid to impound voting machines Urging all sides to "ramp down the rhetoric," a Florida judge on Monday denied a request by Gov. Rick Scott's Senate campaign to impound voting machines, saying he's seen no evidence of wrongdoing in the vote counting in Broward County. Polls close in Madagacar's presidential election Polls close in Madagascar's presidential election, which has seen voters choose from a packed field of candidates led by three former heads of state pitching their ideas for ending a political crisis and boosting the economy. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Kathleen Wynne admits she won't be next Ontario prem ier Ontario Liberal Leader Kathleen Wynne emotionally said she believes her party will lose the June 7 election. Wynne urged voters to elect as many Liberals as possible to ensure the other parties can only win a minority. . Thousands of Islamists march in Jakarta ahead of elections Around 100,000 people marched in Indonesia's capital Sunday to mark two years since a demonstration that led to the fall of Jakarta's Christian ex-governor, as presidential candidates seek to rally support ahead of next year's general election. Turkey's Erdogan claims victory in presidential election Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan claimed victory in Sunday's presidential election and said his ruling AK Party and its alliance partner had won a parliamentary majority. Reuters' Emily Wither reports from Istanbul. Americans start voting in midterm verdict on Trump rule Americans start voting in critical midterm elections that mark the first major voter test of Donald Trump's presidency, with control of Congress at stake. Crude falls, Rupee strengthens Pashupati Advani of Global Foray gives us an market overview, as we head towards General elections. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  