Russel Molefe, Correspondent Close-up of two giraffes. (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A giraffe, known as the gentle giant of nature, can sometimes turn out to be a killer. This behavior once observed by wildlife specialist Amy Attenborough was again reinforced after a giraffe kicked a farm worker to death outside Bela-Bela in Limpopo on Saturday. According to provincial police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel, Moatshe Ngoepe, the 49-year old worker was feeding the animals when the giraffe kicked him in the stomach. The incident happened at a local safari lodge. His family was too distraught to speak to News24 on Saturday. "According to the information received, the paramedics were summoned and on arrival they tried to resuscitate him, but was later declared dead," Ngoepe said. He said the police in Bela-Bela have opened an inquest docket. Other incidents of giraffe attacks reported in 2018 includes that of an award-winning South African filmmaker, Carlos Carvallo, who died after being head-butted by the animal while filming at Glen Africa country Lodge in the North West in May. In September, Katy Williams and her three-year-old son were left critically injured when a giraffe that has just given birth attacked them at the Blyde Wildlife Estate in Hoedspruit. Attenborough once wrote: "Giraffes are well-versed in the art of self-defence to the point where even lions only dare to attack them in large groups. "A giraffe can kick in any direction and in a manner of ways, and its kick cannot only kill a lion, but has even been known to decapitate it."   Lions Outwit Giraffe Mother To Catch Her Calf A pride of lions outwitted a mother giraffe - to pick off her calf. When your day in Sabi starts with a leopard kill inside the camp... Staff in Idube Game Reserve who spend their entire time in the bush could not believe this early-morning kill which took place right on the lawn of the lodge. Lions rescued from chaos of war Lions, Simba and Saeed, were rescued from war-torn Iraq and Syria and brought to safety in South Africa. WATCH: Cheeky Sabi Sabi elephant grazes on tree from resort roof Forget about a cat on a hot tin roof - why not try an elephant for size? And no, your eyes are not deceiving you – there is indeed an elephant bull on the roof of the Sabi Sabi Earth Lodge (a private game reserve) in Mpumalanga. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.