Canny Maphanga Cat for Adoption (Mdzananda Animal Clinic, Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It's expected to be a bleak Christmas for some furry friends. The Mdzananda Animal Clinic in Khayelitsha has had a large influx of abandoned dogs and cats in the weeks leading up Christmas. "Last Friday, our total was sitting at 25 dogs and 32 cats that had been handed over to us," fundraising and communications manager Marcelle du Plessis said in a statement on Monday. The clinic, which treats up to 700 animals a month, has had to adapt to accommodate the influx. "Being a clinic, we are not really set up to house homeless pets but, over the past two years, we have had to significantly adapt our clinic to cater for homeless animals and formalise an adoption programme," Du Plessis explained. Many residents hand their pets over to the clinic before they travel and end up not returning to collect them. In addition, pets are also handed over to the clinic when people are overwhelmed with expenses over the festive season. "We do not have the capacity for this as our clinic is packed to the brim with patients and our small stray unit is overflowing. We direct them to organisations that do have boarding facilities or encourage them to employ a school child or fellow community member to visit and feed their pets at home daily while they are away. "We also encourage people to leave their pets with responsible family members or friends to look after them while they are away," Du Plessis urged. The clinic asked the public to consider adopting one of the many abandoned animals. "The clinic desperately needs people from the public to assist them with the influx of homeless pets this festive season. "If you are interested in adopting or fostering a pet, please get in touch with the clinic on 021 367 6001 or 082 251 0554. Images of the pets up for adoption can be seen on the Mdzananda Animal Clinic Facebook page at www.facebook.com/MdzanandaAnimalClinic ," Du Plessis said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.