Kaveel Singh (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Women & Men Against Child Abuse (WMACA) said they were hoping for a guilty verdict in the judgment of the Baby Daniel murder trial taking place on Tuesday. "We expect to see a guilty verdict and we definitely won't be satisfied with anything less than a life sentence for both of the accused. His mother and her boyfriend are equally guilty of the torture and abuse that led to his death," WMACA founding director Miranda Jordan said. The judgment is expected in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg again where Timothy Naidoo and Maryke Cloete are standing trial for the murder, abuse and neglect of Baby Daniel, who died in June 2016. List of injuries During this trial, testimony was heard about alleged torture the toddler was exposed to over a period of time. The list of injuries to his tiny body included a broken elbow, broken femur, injured ribs and a 60% body surface area, partial to full thickness burns. The court previously heard that the Child Protection Unit visited the little boy’s family twice and found no evidence of abuse. Naidoo says Daniel fell into a bath of hot water and although he seemed fine afterwards, he was found dead the next day. Daniel was never taken to hospital for the burn injuries, but prior to this he had been to hospital several times. Before his death, Daniel had been in hospital a number of times for various injuries.  Cosby arrives for sentencing hearing Bill Cosby, once known as ‘America’s dad,’ arrived for his sentencing hearing on a sexual assault conviction, Monday. Cosby became the first celebrity convicted of a sex crime since the emergence of the #MeToo movement last year. Expected star witness may not testify in Trump ex-aide Manafort's trial U.S. prosecutors raised the possibility on Wednesday that an expected star witness may not testify against President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort even as the judge tried to rein in their portrayal of Manafort's lavish life... New charges against Manafort and a Russian operative U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller filed new criminal charges on Friday against President Donald Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort while also indicting a longtime associate of Manafort's with alleged ties to Russian intelligence. Kit Harington nearly died as a child Kit Harington was "seconds" away from death when he got into difficulties in a swimming pool when he was just four years old. Celebrities react to Peter Stringfellow's death Piers Morgan and Tony Blackburn are among the stars who have paid tribute to nightclub owner Peter Stringfellow, who has died aged 77. Rapper Mac Miller dead at 26 Rapper Mac Miller has died aged 26. Miller, real name Malcolm James McCormick, was found at his California home. US media are reporting the star died from an apparent overdose. Death of Mac Miller: Twitter tributes Stars pay tribute to rapper Mac Miller, who has died aged 26. Twitter reacts to Ken Dodd's death Twitter users have been reacting to the death of entertainer Sir Ken Dodd, who has died aged 90. Sir Ken Dodd: Wife pays tribute to deceased entertainer Lady Anne Dodd pays tribute to her late husband, entertainer Sir Ken Dodd who has died aged 90.

The Liverpudlian was best known for his "tattyfilarious" comedic performances. Six dead and dozens injured in Italian nightclub stampede - local media A stampede at a nightclub in eastern Italy leaves at least six dead, with dozens more injured. Helen Percival reports Trump ex-campaign head Manafort to cooperate with Russia probe U.S. President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort will cooperate with Special Counsel Robert Mueller's probe of Russian election meddling as part of a plea deal, prosecutors told a federal court in Washington on Friday. Mac Miller dead at 26 American rap star Mac Miller has died at the age of 26. Jury selection changes part of feds planned justice reforms Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould says new legislation aimed at overhauling the justice system proposes changes to make juries "more representative" of the population, and to increase penalties for intimate partner violence. How the Murder of 132 Slaves Helped End the Slave Trade The history of slavery is full of heartless and cruel stories, but one heinous case forced the action needed to end the British slave trade. David Duckenfield to face 95 manslaughter charges over Hillsborough fans' deaths Hillsborough match commander David Duckenfield is to face trial for the alleged manslaughter by gross negligence of 95 Liverpool supporters after a judge lifted a stay on his prosecution. Grieving mom lived with dead daughter’s body Police in Detroit say a distraught mother who couldn't part with her daughter after she died kept the woman's body in her house for months. Hondurans flee from poverty but find death in migrant caravan Wilfredo Cruz lives in the slum of El Caimito in the port city of San Lorenzo and waits for the body of his son Oscar to be returned after he died at age 17 on his way to Mexico with the "caravan" of migrants seeking the American dream and to esca... Beans Carolyn seeks the answer to an age old question - do beans really cause flatulence? WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. Shooting at Chicago hospital leaves at least 4 dead A gunman at a Chicago hospital killed a police officer and two others before dying in the shooting, which sent doctors and patients streaming out of the facility. U.S. life expectancy drops again The CDC says U.S. life expectancy declined in 2017 fueled by drug overdoses and suicides. Auto Industry faces challenges after SC Verdict Ongoing debate in the Supreme Court has created huge ambiguity and policy uncertainty. Ranveer lauds LGBT verdict says Karan can enjoy The Supreme Court earlier passed a landmark judgement on Section 377 by decriminalising homosexuality, actor Ranveer Signh lauded the decision and jokingly hinted that filmmaker Karan Johar can now enjoy his 'dessert'. Ranveer, who came as guest t... Salvadoran woman charged with murder over premature death freed Imelda Cortez, a 20-year-old Salvadoran rape victim originally charged with murder after giving birth prematurely in a toilet, leaves court after being acquitted. US gymnast faces her abuser Larry Nassar in court US Olympic gold medallist Jordyn Wieber told the court at the sentencing of Olympic team doctor Larry Nassar that even though she was a victim of sexual abuse, she "will not live my life as one". "I'm an Olympian," she said. 'Nassar abused me hundreds of times' A court hears how former Team USA gymnastics sports doctor Larry Nassar used his position of trust to subject one of nearly 100 victims to a decade of abuse. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. Convicted paedophile Barry Bennell found guilty of more child sexual abuse Serial paedophile Barry Bennell has been convicted of abusing more young footballers. Bennell was found guilty at Liverpool Crown Court on February 13. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. California mom denies child abuse, torture Bail was set Wednesday for a California mother accused of letting her husband torture their 10 children by kicking and punching them, shooting them with a BB gun and scalding them with hot water. Nathan Frandino has more. WATCH: Bakkie careens down Bo-Kaap hill, narrowly misses woman A woman narrowly escaped injury as a bakkie came careening down a hill in the Bo-Kaap. Video footage of the incident surfaced online recently.

According to ER24, the incident happened on Tuesday, October 16. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. Lindsay Lohan: No-one cared about my abuse allegations Lindsay Lohan has claimed "no-one" in Hollywood cared when she accused her former fiance Egor Tarabasov of abusing her. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. Mask of Deception Are dangerous substances in our food supply and the over consumption of certain food substances killing us? Is our diet one of the main underlying causes of most life threatening and disabling diseases in western society today? Cystic fibrosis patient's heartfelt awareness raising campaign released after her death A cystic fibrosis patient's heartfelt awareness raising campaign is to be released after she lost her battle to the disease. Attempted bomb attack at home of senior Greek prosecutor Greek police early Tuesday defused a bomb left outside of the Athens home of a controversial senior prosecutor, a police source say. Supreme Court deputy prosecutor Isidoros Dogiakos in 2013 had overseen the high-profile investigation that put lea... Fashion designer Kate Spade dies aged 55 Chelsea Clinton has led the tributes to American fashion designer Kate Spade, who has died aged 55. Manafort found guilty on eight of 18 charges Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort was found guilty on Tuesday on eight charges of tax and bank fraud and failing to disclose foreign bank accounts, after a jury said it could not reach consensus on the other 10 charges against him. In aging Japan, abandoned burial urns pile up Unclaimed urns containing ashes of the dead are piling up by the thousands across Japan, as a greying population and economic pressures fray family ties. U.S. judge affirms Monsanto weed-killer verdict, slashes damages A U.S. judge has affirmed a verdict against Bayer AG unit Monsanto that found its glyphosate-based weed-killers responsible for a man’s terminal cancer, sending the German company's shares down 8 percent.  Francis Maguire reports Video shows alleged El Chapo drug tunnel Prosecutors have started presenting evidence to jurors in the trial of the notorious drug smuggler known as El Chapo by giving them a video tour of a tunnel between Mexico and an Arizona warehouse. Avicii's family arrive in Oman to repatriate body Following the sudden and tragic passing of Swedish DJ Avicii, his immediate family have traveled to Oman, where the music maker was vacationing when he died. His family have arrived to repatriate his body this week, following two postmortem that h... Mama Julia proves many good tune played on old fiddle even at 117 Julia Flores Colque, known to locals as "Mama Julia", is a tender 117 years of age, making her a "supercentenarian". The 117-year-old lives with her last remaining relatives, her niece and her niece's husband, who look after her in her old age. Th... MJ Akbar tenders his resignation MoS External affairs has resigned from his post . He has decided to seek justice in the court of law regarding the accusations made against him. Police launch murder probe after death at London apartment block Bethany-Maria Beales, 22, died at The Heron apartment building after suffering injuries consistent with a fall from a height on May 26. Police have launched a murder investigation into her death. With murder rate rising, how do Venezuelans survive? As if coping with constant food and medicine shortages were not enough for crisis-weary Venezuelans, many live in constant fear in a country where three people die violently every hour. YouTube channel FamilyOFive shut down for child abuse The YouTube channel that used to upload prank videos on family members is shut down after uploading "content that endangers children." Despite being on probation for child neglect, FamilyOFive kept uploading content of their children being pranked. Old, not ill: scientist opts for Swiss suicide A 104-year-old Australian scientist has ended his own life by assisted suicide in Switzerland. The scientist was not terminally ill, but said he suffered from deteriorating health.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.