Sharlene Rood WATCH: Family uses teamwork to steal woman's handbag A family of would-be-robbers seemingly worked together to steal an unsuspecting woman's handbag from a restaurant on the weekend. A "family" of thieves seemingly worked together to steal an unsuspecting woman's handbag from a restaurant over the weekend. Watch. The incident happened at roughly 15:20 on Saturday, December 8, at the Spur at the Tygervalley Centre in Bellville. Louis Fourie posted CCTV footage of the incident on social media over the weekend and the clip has been viewed and shared more than 300 000 times. His wife, 47, who asked not to be named, said she felt very disheartened by the incident. "I feel disheartened but, more than that, I feel quite powerless, angry and sad. It happened at such a horrible time of the year. "The fact that children are being trained to do this, is horrible," Fourie said. The footage shows a "family" of three – presumably a mother, father and child – seated at the booth behind Fourie and her children. The young child then shuffles toward the glass railing and reaches behind her. She slides the handbag, which was on the ground between Fourie's foot and the glass railing, towards her. 'I really didn't think anyone would be able to take it' The child passes the handbag to the woman at her table. A second woman then enters the Spur and collects the handbag. She departs and the family gets up and leave shortly after. "I had my bag on the seat next to me and thought to myself, I had better move it as it's so easy to grab," Fourie said. She then moved her bag to the ground. Although she normally hooks her foot through the strap of her handbag, Fourie says: "I really didn't think anyone anyone would be able to take it." She only realised her bag was gone when she wanted to settle the bill. Fourie and her children frantically searched the mall for her bag. "We walked up and down to the exits, to the bathrooms, looked in the trash cans," but to no avail. Mall security later told Fourie that the alleged perpetrators had left the mall in a blue Toyota Avanza. 'Her heart is very sore' "We would have had a wonderful day of shopping ahead of us, if not for this incident," she said. "Some of us work for our money and others just take it." The perpetrators made off with a phone, a substantial amount of cash and shopping vouchers. "My daughter had been saving her vouchers since her birthday in August." The 14-year old's purse, with roughly R1 700 in hard-earned savings, was also in Fourie's handbag, as well as her Christmas present. Fourie also had additional money in her purse. "Her heart is very sore. She didn't want to stop looking for them," Fourie said, adding that she wasn't in a position at the moment to replace any of the cash and vouchers her daughter had lost. Apart from these losses, the family will also have to replace their vehicle's keyless entry system, which could cost between R20 000 and R30 000. "I have received a quote of R20 000," Fourie said. She is not certain at this stage whether or not her insurance will cover the cost. Police attended the scene Saturday and a case was opened at the Bellville police station. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". SATIRE: "This wonderful person called Hlaudi" | Hlaudi Motsoeneng rap remix "I want to applaud people who recognise this wonderful person called Hlaudi. Because when I came here there was no SABC" - Hlaudi Motsoeneng, 2016 WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. WATCH: Aerial view of Secunda taxi strike Scores of taxi drivers in Secunda, Mpumalanga caused a traffic jam on roads moving in and out of the city centre. WATCH: A News24 2018 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' All I Want For Christmas Is You News24 thought it apt that some of South Africa's politicians bring you a little festive cheer. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. WATCH: Prodigious python causes stir in Kathu A prodigious python, filmed slithering up a tree, caused quite a stir in the small town of Kathu in the Northern Cape. VIDEO | Festive blitz: 11 Joburg nightclubs raided during late night police operation Eleven places of entertainment were raided in the Johannesburg inner city on Tuesday night as part of the Buya Mthetho campaign.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.