Nokuthula Manyathi WATCH: Christmas lights raise funds for charity Ken Paley doesn't like being in the spotlight, he prefers to brighten other people's day instead. Watch. Ken Paley doesn't like being in the spotlight, he prefers to brighten other people's days instead. For the past 15 years, during the Christmas season, his home shines the brightest in the tight-knight community of Randpark Ridge, north of Johannesburg. "We started after we were in the UK and we saw a small house having a lot of Christmas lights on," he said. What started with a few light features in front of his home has now grown into a production that takes more than three weeks to perfect. "I couldn't tell you how many globes are in here but it's an awful lot. Myself and two guys from work have done it for the last 15 years – neither one of us are qualified electricians." Paley said in the beginning his family was apprehensive about bringing this "lighting tradition" to his community. "We thought [the community] would have a problem with this sort of street activity." A 'priceless' gesture Year after year his home draws more attention and bigger crowds. This year on the first day the lights were lit, the occasion was celebrated with a market and a nativity play. Every year there are drives to collect funds and donations for organisations such as the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and homeless people in the surrounding areas. This year, part of the fundraising was geared towards supporting a friend who was diagnosed with melanoma cancer – a form of skin cancer. "The whole idea of giving a bit back to the community is what we believe in at the moment." Paley was tight-lipped about how much the lighting extravaganza cost, arguing that one can't put a price on joy. "In South Africa you have little activities where you can go out into the street, we have kids running up and down here. And it's a joy to give this time of year, you can just see the sparkle in the kids eyes, you can't put a rand value on that." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Fender bender escalates into physical altercation between motorist North West police are urging the public to avoid taking the law into their own hands, after two motorists were involved in a physical altercation following a collision at a petrol station. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday. WATCH: 'Do not fight me, I'm doing my job'- traffic officer keeps his cool with motorist A traffic officer has been applauded for keeping calm during an altercation with a motorist in Vryheid, north of KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH: The journey of News24 over the past 20 years. As 2018 draws to a close, we at News24 have taken a moment to reflect on our 20 years of existence.
From its humble beginnings as a pure aggregation site. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.