Duncan Alfreds The Karoshoek Solar One project  is seen at night. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A new solar plant that can supply electricity even when the sun sets has been launched in the Northern Cape. The 100MW Karoshoek Solar One project has gone live 30km east of Upington as part of the government's Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme. "The plant will provide power to approximately 100 000 households," Karoshoek Solar One CEO Niroshma Chetty told News24. READ: Massive clean green electricity plant to be officially launched in Northern Cape this month Moldova: Climate-friendly construction The former Soviet Republic of Moldova - one of the poorest countries in Europe - relies heavily on Russia for its energy needs. A German NGO is helping increase the country's energy efficiency, starting with the residential sector. She added that, during construction, 1 500 jobs - of which 1 300 were local - had been created and that 62 people would be directly employed during the operational phase. "Not many projects have been completed on time and within budget, as we have done today. It has been a massive effort, involving many teams of people," said Chetty. READ: The world's set for failure on energy goals as millions of people still struggle without electricity Unlike a traditional solar photovoltaic (PV) system, the Karoshoek facility is based on concentrated solar plant (CSP) technology. Load shedding The installation will plug into the national grid at a time when Eskom is once again engaging in load shedding as a result of a lack of sufficient coal at traditional power stations.  Karoshoek Solar One project. (Supplied) CSPs do not require coal to produce electricity and do not produce any of the waste associated with either coal or nuclear power plants. "We have shown once again that solar energy has a huge role to play in South Africa. With renewable energy we can combine the provision of power with positive social and environmental outcomes. Solar technology allows us to produce energy without releasing carbon or other harmful emissions. It is a crucial part of our energy mix," said Chetty. Several parabolic mirrors focus the sun's rays onto a collector which holds a fluid. This fluid, which often consists of salt among other materials, will use the heat to turn a turbine, much like in a coal-powered plant. The thermal fluid retains heat for several hours, enabling the turbine to generate electricity during the day and at night.  Karoshoek Solar One project. (Supplied) A solar PV system needs additional battery storage to deliver power after the sun sets. "CSP compliments other renewables - such as wind and PV - because of its ability to store energy, making it a dispatchable power plant that can be operated as a peaking power plant or baseload power plant," Chetty explained. "CSP is different from PV, as the power generated by a CSP plant can be stored and supplied after dark. This plant can store energy for five hours. This enables the plant to continue to supply electricity to the grid after sunset." According to the International Renewable Energy Agency (Irena), the levelised cost of electricity from CSPs is higher than PV or wind systems, though the agency was careful to point out that in high sunlight areas, the costs could be significantly less. Data from Stellenbosch University's Centre for Renewable and Sustainable Energy Studies shows that the Northern Cape province is ideal for solar power installations. Northern Cape ideal The province has Direct Normal Solar Irradiation of between 3 000kWh/m2 and 3 200kWh/m2, the highest in the country. According to Irena data, SA has seen significant installation of solar power since 2013. There has been a net addition of 2 173MW of solar PV and, since 2014, a net addition of about 300MW in CSP. Chetty said that the Karoshoek Solar One project was the fifth CSP in the province, proving how ideal it was for the conditions. SA has a cumulative total of 2 486MW of solar power generation, of which 300MW is CSP. Commercial funding for the Karoshoek Solar One project came from ABSA, DBSA, IDC, Investec, Nedbank, Standard Bank, PIC and Vantage Capital.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's astrological wedding Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are set to have the stars and planets align for their wedding, according to astrologists. The Ozone Layer Will Repair Itself Over the Next 50 Years Finally, some good news for our Earth! According to a U.N. report, the hole in the Earth's ozone layer is healing and is expected to fully heal by the 2060s. Mobile Gold Our waste is worth money. Recovering it has started up a new global industry worth billions. Afterpay and Platinum rally: Aus shares flat at noon 27 Aug 2018 - Market at Midday. Afterpay sets records with further upgrades. Platinum also rallies after upgrade. Infigen Energy gains 4.8% on NPAT jumping 42%. Metcash firms hold of South Australian market. Watch for more. Running on Sunshine Based around the 2003 World Solar Challenge, Running on Sunshine is the story of an epic journey of 3,000 kilometres across the Australian desert. The documentary reveals the link between the famous event and the development of motor technology. Colombia election puts peace, economy at stake Colombians vote on Sunday in a deeply divisive presidential runoff with one candidate wanting to alter a fragile peace deal and the other promising to overhaul the economic model. Infratil affirms commitment to Tilt Renewables offer 09 Oct 2018 - Infratil (ASX:IFT) has affirmed its commitment to its takeover bid for Tilt renewables (ASX:TLT) and says there will be no price increase. Infratil hits back at Tilt’s report 26 Sep 2018 - The takeover tussle for Tilt Renewables (ASX:TLT) continues with bidders Infratril (ASX:IFT) and Mercury NZ (ASX) hitting back at Tilt's Independent Advisor's report which claimed their offer was inadequate. Philippines: Solar power instead of coal The residents of Atimonan, a coastal town in the Philippines, are resisting the construction of new power plants. Coal is still the main source of power generation in the country, where green electricity plays only a niche role. Starlings soar through Roman skies at sunset Thousands of starlings soar through the skies of Italy's eternal city at sunset. Chernobyl's new generation How solar power is giving the Chernobyl disaster site a new beginning. Genex Power hopes to buy Jemalong Solar Project 07 Sep 2018 - Genex Power (ASX:GNX) is pleased to announce that it has today entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement for the acquisition of the Jemalong Solar Project development in NSW. Renewable energy Green technologies such as offshore wind and solar power are changing the way we produce energy. They are seen as a crucial weapon in the fight against global warming. Renewable energy Green technologies such as offshore wind and solar power are changing the way we produce energy. They are seen as a crucial weapon in the fight against global warming. Six great innovations changing the lives of the poorest communities From affordable solar power to digital stethoscopes - six entrepreneurial developments Genex Power (ASX:GNX) - renewable energy hub developer 21 Aug 2018 - Genex Power Limited (ASX:GNX) Executive Director, Simon Kidston talks about the company's renewable energy hub in FNQ, delivering power to the National Energy Market from its Stage 1 50MW solar plant, and backing for the company's St... China Floats to the Top of the Solar Energy Pool China is literally floating its solar energy fututre atop of its coal-burning past. WATCH: Khayelitsha's Buhle Sithelana uses solar power to host pop-up cinemas When Buhle Sithelana quit university due to financial constraints in 2015, he turned to social entrepreneurship to make a living. Now, the innovative 22-year-old Khayelitsha resident uses the proceeds from his bin cleaning service to host pop-up movi ClearVue Technologies receive ATO boost 19 Oct 2018 - Smart building material company ClearVue Technologies (ASX:CPV) has received a payment from the Australian Tax Office of almost $500,000 as part of the Commonwealth Government Research & Development Tax Incentive Program. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. Let There Be Light Brings Fusion Energy to Life Can we bring the nuclear fusion power of the sun & stars to Planet Earth? The new documentary Let There Be Light follows the scientists who think we can. Lost interstellar asteroid enters solar system and baffles scientists A lost interstellar asteroid has entered the solar system after wandering between the stars for hundreds of millions of years, scientists believe. The unique object, named Oumuamua, is highly elongated, about 400 metres long and dark red. Nasa footage shows eruption on the Sun Footage from Nasa shows a minor eruption on the Sun surface. The event was captured in extreme ultraviolet light. At its peak, the plasma rises to heights that are several times the diameter of Earth. Earth-sized planet discovered with 'mild' climate and peaceful parent star A newly discovered planet orbiting a nearby star could be the closest world to Earth providing a comfortable home for life. The Earth-sized planet, named Ross 128b, is just 11 light years away. Lift off in NASA's mission to "touch the sun" The Parker Solar Probe was launched on Sunday in a mission to venture closer to the Sun than ever before. British-built spacecraft is set for Mercury A British-built spacecraft is set to blast off from Earth bound for Mercury, the mysterious planet closest to the sun.

BepiColombo, one of the most ambitious missions ever undertaken by the European Space Agency, will send two orbiters to explore... Nasa spacecraft heads to sun for closest look yet Nasa has launched a spacecraft to the sun that will fly closer to our star than anything ever sent before. Crowds greet 'perfect' summer solstice sunrise at Stonehenge Crowds cheered the rise of the sun at Stonehenge as thousands gathered to celebrate the summer solstice. NASA's Osiris-Rex reaches asteroid deemed Earth threat NASA's deep space explorer Osiris-Rex has flown to within a dozen miles of a skyscraper-sized asteroid believed to hold organic compounds fundamental to life as well as the potential to collide with Earth in about 150 years. Palestinians turn to the sun to reduce their power shortfall Palestinians are hoping that harnessing the energy of the sun can reduce their dependence on Israel for electricity.  Thuy Ong repots. Movie Premiere: Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom All dinosaur fans assemble. The latest installment in the Jurassic saga 'Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom' is here. Leading stars Chris Pratt and Bruce Dallas Howard endured the sun AND pouring rain to attend the world premiere in Madrid. Movie Report: 'Midnight Sun' In the romantic drama 'Midnight Sun' we meet 17-year-old Katie Price, played by Bella Thorne, who suffers from a rare genetic condition that makes her vulnerable to sunlight. Patrick Schwarzenegger reveals when he decided to become an actor The young star attended the premiere of his latest movie, 'Midnight Sun'. World's first ocean-going solar yacht can cruise the globe with no need for a fuel stop A Swiss company has designed a solar-powered yacht with the ability to cruise the entire globe - without needing to stop and refuel. Landmarks pay tribute to victorious Bleus as sun sets in Paris Paris is lit up in blue, white and red on Sunday as the city celebrates France's World Cup win with light shows at its most iconic monuments. 1816: The Year Without Summer Thanks to a huge volcanic eruption folks in 1816 had a good excuse to complain about the weather. Worldwide famine, floods & disease-all thanks to enough toxic ash in the sky to turn summer into winter. Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. Students in Gaza generate electricity using sea waves Palestinian engineering students are tackling dire power shortages in Gaza by generating electricity using sea waves. The project aims to provide clean and renewable energy for Gaza which is currently suffering from a blockade Miniloop cycle highway unveiled An elevated cycleway compared to Elon Musk's Hyperloop has been unveiled. The miniloop design would utilise renewable energy technologies to power itself and keep cyclists safely away from traffic and pollution. Financial sector drags: Aus shares close 0.1% lower 16 Nov 2018 - Opened in the black following positive leads from the US, dipped in the afternoon, and closed 0.1 per cent lower. The Info Tech sector was the strongest performing sector followed by Materials. The Property and Consumer Staples secto... The Future Makers With recent attention on global warming, there's been a big focus on the problem, but what about the solutions? The Future Makers tells the story of key Australians leading the way on the world stage in renewable energy. InSight mission to Mars Videographic on the InSight mission. InSight's primary goal is to study how the solar system's rocky planets, including Earth, formed and evolved. The robot is now expected to arrive on Mars on Monday. InSight mission to Mars Videographic on the InSight mission. InSight's primary goal is to study how the solar system's rocky planets, including Earth, formed and evolved. The robot is now expected to arrive on Mars on November 26. InSight mission to Mars Videographic on the InSight mission. InSight's primary goal is to study how the solar system's rocky planets, including Earth, formed and evolved. The robot is now expected to arrive on Mars on November 26. 'Fittest dwarf on Earth' can lift four times his own weight A 4ft 5in gym fanatic who can lift four times his own weight has dubbed himself 'the fittest dwarf on Earth'. Bring the Sun Home Illiterate women from villages around the world with no electricity attend a course to learn how to make solar panels in India. They don't speak English but they are determined to learn the new technology... and bring the sun home. How to tell if your solar eclipse glasses are safe How tell if your solar eclipse glasses are safe --  according to NASA scientists. Irish tourist board launches Star Wars ad into space Tourism chiefs in Ireland have launched a stratospheric ad campaign to highlight the island's key role in the latest Star Wars film.

While not quite a galaxy far, far away, Tourism Ireland has sent a billboard 21 miles above planet earth. Solar developers demand change Tenders for 1,000 MW For solar projects from November 2018, decision taken by Ministry of New & Renewable Energy. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  