Canny Maphanga Fikile Mbalula. (Photo by Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has not yet taken a decision on whether to prosecute former minister Fikile Mbalula over a holiday to Dubai which cost R680 000. "We’ll establish whether it warrants a criminal investigation. If it warrants a criminal investigation, we’ll refer it to the Hawks to open a criminal docket and investigate it," NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku told Eyewitness News on Thursday. On Wednesday, Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane released a report which found that a trip Mbalula had taken to Dubai in 2017, when he was still a minister, was partly paid for by Sedgars Sports, a company which had business deals with South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc), creating a conflict of interest. Mkhwebane also found that Mbalula violated the Constitution and the Executive Members Ethics Code. She established that there was no loan agreement between Mbalula and Yusuf Dockrat, a Sedgars director, as the ANC politician claimed when it was revealed that Dockrat had paid a portion of the travel costs. Mbalula escaped executive censure as he is no longer a minister. READ: Mbalula's Dubai trip: ANC, DA welcome Public Protector's findings Lobby group AfriForum, which first wrote to the Public Protector on October 9, 2017, to investigate a payment of R300 000 by Sedgars for Mbalula's trip, says that it will privately prosecute him if the NPA fails to do so. "AfriForum will monitor the process and should the NPA fail to do their job and not prosecute of their own accord, advocate Gerrie Nel and our private prosecution unit will privately prosecute Mbalula to ensure that justice prevails," head of AfriForum’s anti-corruption unit Monique Taute said in a statement on Wednesday. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Mbalula found wanting over Dubai trip, but he escapes sanction ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa appoints advocate Shamila Batohi as new NPA boss President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced advocate Shamila Batohi as the new head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Lawson Naidoo, joins News24 opinions editor Alet Janse van Rensburg and News24 editor-in-chief in studio for analysis. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. ANALYSIS: What now for South Africa's ousted National Prosecuting Authority head Shaun Abraham? News24's Jeanette Chabalala and Pieter du Toit discuss Monday morning's ruling by the Constitutional Court, which found the appointment of National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Shaun Abrahams unconstitutional and invalid. WATCH: South Africa's Constitutional Court ruling on ousted prosecuting head explained The Constitutional Court found on Monday that the appointment of National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss Shaun Abrahams was unconstitutional and invalid. Here's what you need to know. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.