Ntwaagae Seleka High Court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The mother of Baby Daniel, the toddler who was abused and killed in 2016, has been found guilty of child abuse and negligence, while her boyfriend at the time has been convicted of the child's murder. Judgment was delivered in the trial of Maryke Cloete* and Timothy Naidoo in the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Thursday. Cloete and her boyfriend Naidoo were on trial for the murder, abuse and neglect of the three-year-old boy, who died in June 2016. During the trial, testimony revealed the extent of the alleged torture and injuries suffered by Daniel, which included a broken elbow, broken femur, injured ribs and a second degree burns to 60% of his body. Naidoo, who wasn't the childs's biological father, said Daniel had fallen into a bath of hot water and, although he had seemed fine afterwards, he had been found dead the next day. A forensic pathologist testified that the child's injuries had been inflicted while he was still alive. Daniel was never taken to hospital for the burn injuries, but prior to this he had been to hospital several times.  Judge Collin Matshitse, in delivering in his ruling, noted that in February 2016 Naidoo had taken the toddler to hospital, claiming he had been injured in a fall from a tree. Matshitse said Naidoo could not explain why the child had bruises below his eye and injuries on his nipples. During the trial, one witness testified that Cloete wanted to open an attempted murder case against Naidoo. Naidoo denied a case was opened against him.  Ngaa Murombedzi from Women and Men against Child Abuse said the organisation welcomed the judgement. "We understand that it was difficult for the judge to convict the mother on a murder charge. But, we are happy with her conviction." "The onus was on the state to prove the murder charge on the mother. We are happy that the state proved that she was negligent which ultimately led to her son's death." Murombedzi urged parents who find themselves living in fear for their lives in abusive relationships to report the abuse to authorities. "Failing to protect your child can lead to neglect and your silence as a mother can lead to the death or murder of your child" she said. Cloete will apply for bail on Friday, while sentencing procedures are due to begin on January 21, 2019. *Maryke Cloete is not the woman's real name. Her identity has been concealed to protect the identities of her other three children. WATCH: Boy child caught on camera stealing cellphone A video of a young child stealing a cellphone from a hair salon in Chatsworth, near Durban has gone viral online. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: Report shows over six million SA children live below the poverty line Over six million children in South Africa still live below the food poverty line, according to the Child Gauge 2018 report released on Tuesday. 'They stole my son from me' In Spain, hundreds of mothers are looking for a son or a daughter. 

They believe their child was stolen at birth and then given or sold. Poland: Pedophile priests Increasingly, victims of abuse are taking legal action against pedophile priests in Poland's Catholic Church. Many were abused as children, when they served as altar boys. Now they're taking their former tormentors to court. Salvadoran on trial for attempted murder after giving birth Imelda Cortez goes on trial in southeastern El Salvador on charges of attempted murder after having a baby in a toilet in 2017. Cortez became pregnant after she was raped repeatedly by her stepfather. After the delivery, doctors believed she had h... Faith healer accused of sexual abuse turns himself in A Brazilian faith healer who was accused of sexual abuse by more than 300 women has turned himself in a day after being officially ruled a fugitive. Body of Guatemalan child to be repatriated The Annunciation House refuge for migrants is calling for a thorough investigation into the death of a 7-year-old Guatemalan migrant, who died after being detained by U.S. border patrol agents. Two men save child falling from fifth floor of apartment A bus driver Tagir Magomedov and his colleague Aydemir Kulduev managed to catch a child falling from a fifth floor apartment window. They tried to catch the five-year old and successfully cushioned the fall. The girl did sustain any serious injuri... Pope demotes two cardinals over sex abuse Pope Francis has removed two cardinals from his inner circle of advisers. One, George Pell, faces trial for sex abuse; the other is accused of covering up abuse in Chile. Nobel Peace Prize winner demands action against sex abuse Nobel peace winner demands action against sex abuse Afghan women find freedom in running The all-female Free to Run group hits Kabul city's trails and parks several times a week, braving disapproving looks, verbal abuse and even physical violence to enjoy the rare pleasure of exercising outdoors. Trained officials key to implementing changed rules for child travellers, says SA tourism minister "This does not mean returning on the first flight home...the traveller will be given adequate opportunity to obtain the documentation without just being shipped out." Former Kindertransport refugee warning over rise of populism Former child refugee Ruth Barnet warned against the dangers of populism. Global Teen from Grenada Jessemy Stafford is 17 and lives in the Caribbean. He's doing an apprenticeship as an electrical engineer, and after that he wants to study. Ever since he was a child, Jessemy's been mad about cricket, and hopes one day to play for his national team. Trump references ‘barbs’ and ‘abuse’ at USMCA trade deal signing Canada, Mexico and the U.S. signed the USMCA on Friday, a new trade deal which still needs to be ratified by all three countries. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told Donald Trump more work needs to be done to remove existing tariffs. Trudeau shares childhood memories as Centre Block to close Justin Trudeau recounted playing hide-and-seek as a child in the stairways of Parliament, as the prime minister spoke at a ceremony marking the closure of Centre Block for a decade-long renovation. Redblacks player who went to St. Michael’s on growing scandal An Ottawa Redblacks player calls the abuse and sexual abuse allegations at his former school “extremely troubling.” Nolan MacMillan, whose team plays in Sunday’s Grey Cup, says he had positive experiences at St. Michael’s in Toronto. Refugee sheltered by Clement Attlee recalls his relationship with the former PM Jewish child refugee Paul Willer was sponsored by former Prime Minister Clement Attlee. 

The sponsorship allowed him to leave Germany in 1939 and move to the UK. The Attlees then looked after him for four months until the beginning of the war. Millie Bobby Brown reveals she has been a victim of bullying Actress Millie Bobby Brown has opened up about her experiences with being bullied, both at school and online. Audrina Patridge gets primary custody of her daughter for now Audrina Patridge is set to get primary custody of her two-year-old daughter Kirra Max for the time being as her and her ex-husband Corey Bohan are still working some things out. 11th child dies in viral outbreak at NJ facility An 11th child has died in less than four weeks at a New Jersey rehabilitation center, one of 34 young patients with compromised immune systems to have been infected by a viral outbreak. Trending: Jessica Chastain reportedly welcomes first child via surrogate, Jessie J hits out about 'p In case you missed it, here’s what’s trending right now. Amy Schumer hospitalised with hyperemesis Amy Schumer - who is pregnant with her first child with husband Chris Fischer - has been hospitalised with hyperemesis gravidarum. California fires: Man searches for relatives Nineteen-year-old Jonathan Clark searches in vain for his brother, his sister-in-law and their 6-year-old child, all three of whom are missing after California's deadliest-ever wildfire. My life as... a Halal dating guru The 'halal dating guru' getting abuse for giving Muslim women relationship tips. WATCH: Family taken hostage during hijacking Police are looking for five suspects who hijacked and kidnapped a family of three - a couple and their child - in Constantia Kloof, West Rand over the weekend. Babies playing baseball Boys playing baseball in backyard Attorney Michael Avenatti arrested on suspicion of domestic violence Stormy Daniels' attorney, Michael Avenatti, has been arrested in Los Angeles on suspicion of domestic violence, according to police. G8 Education shares rally on outlook 15 Nov 2018 - Child care services firm, G8 Education (ASX:GEM) advised its earnings for the 2018 calendar year will be in line with market consensus and its shares hit a 6-month high.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.