Mxolisi Mngadi Two foetuses were discovered lying between refuse bags in Durban North. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 20-year-old KwaZulu-Natal mother has been arrested following the discovery of two foetuses, "who appeared to be twins", in Durban North on Monday morning. The foetuses were found dumped among refuse bags in Lynne Avenue in Glen Ashley at about 07:00. ALSO READ: Plumber finds foetus while working on sewer line in Potchefstroom "A case of concealment of birth is being investigated by Durban North SAPS. It is alleged that this morning at 07:00, two foetuses were found dumped in a rubbish bin. The mother, 20, was arrested and will appear in court soon," said police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala. Blue Security spokesperson Andreas Mathios said their armed response officer had made the grisly discovery. Mathios said the officer was on a routine patrol when some vagrants who were digging in the trash flagged his vehicle down. ALSO READ: Foetus found dumped in Durban rubbish bin "The officer stopped to investigate and discovered the two foetuses, who appeared to be twins, lying between black bags of trash on the grass verge of a property. It is believed the bodies may have been dumped at the site just a few hours earlier," said Mathios. "Our officer immediately cordoned off the area and called the Durban North SAPS, who responded to the scene to investigate further to establish who the mother may be and who may have dumped the babies."   Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. Waste-sorting skepticism There are people in Germany who say there is no point in separating trash into different categories for recycling, it all ends up in the same dump. They are wrong. While a lot of trash just gets burned, a lot really does get recycled. Would you eat recycled landfill meat? Ever wondered what happens to restaurant leftovers? In the Philippine capital, Manila meat is recycled from rubbish tips. 'Pagpag' is eaten by some of the country's poorest people. Would you eat recycled landfill meat? Ever wondered what happens to restaurant leftovers? In the Philippine capital, Manila meat is recycled from rubbish tips. 'Pagpag' is eaten by some of the country's poorest people. Policeman Shoots Bear Out Of Car A US Police officer released a bear trapped in a car by shooting out the back window. Police officer dies in Bilbao after clashes with Spartak Moscow fans A police officer died as trouble flared ahead of Athletic Bilbao's Europa League clash with Spartak Moscow.

Videos of fireworks and flares being let off were widely shared on social media ahead of the fixture at San Mames. Russian fashion designer creates costumes from garbage Russian eco-fashion designer Artur Brazhe creates catwalk clothing out of recyclable trash Police officer saves homeless man sleeping on train tracks A police officer in New Jersey saves a man who is seconds away from being hit by a train. Video shows police punching teen during arrest Video posted on social media over the weekend has stirred outrage outside Milwaukee, where a white police officer was filmed punching a black teenager during an arrest. Police escort slain officer's son to school The son of an officer killed during a homicide investigation makes an emotional return to school. Anti-Black Friday protesters rally at Amazon French HQ Environmental activists dump mounds of broken electronics, appliances and other waste at the French headquarters of Amazon on Friday, accusing the e-commerce giant of encouraging over-consumption while falling short on recycling. Police officer ingests drugs during arrest An Ohio officer was treated for an overdose after he inhaled an unknown powder during an arrest. Police officer plays piano for 93-year-old A Mansfield police officer took the opportunity to serenade a 93-year-old gentleman, playing a Chopin nocturne during a theft revisit. Police shoot at actor dressed as bank robber Bodycam footage has been released of a police officer shooting at an actor dressed as an armed robber. More microplastic pellets than stars A UN report says that less than a 10th of all the plastic ever made has been recycled. Fifty nations are now taking action to curb plastic waste. Is it the beginning of the end for plastic? What happens to your plastic? As plastic waste continues to hit the headlines, take a look at what happens to your plastic once you put it in the recycling bin. Student police officer nicknamed "The Hoff" for rescuing man from freezing river Mohammed Nadeem, a student officer with the Greater Manchester Police, dived into a freezing cold river to save a man flailing in distress in the water. Police officer ushers ducks across rush hour highway These ducks were quackers crossing the road at rush hour. They had tried to brave this highway in Kentucky by themselves. But a local police officer was on hand and wouldn't duck the issue. 'I dream of being an astronaut' – Durban matriculant with 11 distinctions A Durban matriculant who achieved 11 distinctions in 2017's IEB examinations says she dreams of being an astronaut. Officer saves distressed fawn from sewer A fawn trapped in a New Jersey storm drain has been rescued by a uniformed friend of the animal kingdom known as the "Deer Whisperer". Mediterranean style living Eric Bensaid had a house built that's already full of stories. The interior's retro-look comes from a colorful fusion of designer furniture and recycled materials. And the view of the Mediterranean is unbeatable. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH. Popemobile swerves police officer thrown from horse in Chile Pope Francis brings his motorcade to a halt in Chile after a police officer falls off her rearing horse.
The officer was guarding the route in Iquique after Pope Francis had completed mass before her horse reared up violently and sent her tumbling WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. Slow recycler Turkey seeks better uses for its trash A pilot project in Istanbul is allowing metro users to pay for credit on travel cards by slotting plastic bottles instead of money into vending machines, a relatively rare step to improve recycling and waste management in a country of over 80 mill... Trash is piling up in Europe as China refuses imports China's environmental crackdown means that imports of foreign waste for recycling has crashed a whopping 96 percent since January. But now trash is piling up in Europe in every place from docks to building sites as the continent struggles to figur... Waste washer - purifying plastic for recycling Worldwide more than 100 million tons of plastic are discarded every year. Why not recycle? The scavenger who runs the dump For eight years Yassine scavenged on a dump in Rabat, Morocco. But now he is the founder of the first cooperative for waste recycling in the country. India's trash problem With a population of more than a billion, India generates a huge amount of waste. Little of it is recycled. A number of start-ups are developing ways to tackle the problem. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. World's first recycled plastic boat departs Kenya The world's first 100 percent recycled boat was built using over 10 tonnes of plastic waste. It sailed from Kenya's Lamu island for the first time on September 15. Somali refugees turn plastic waste warriors in one of world's biggest camps Somali refugees in Kenya are raising awareness and generating an income by recycling plastic in Dadaab's waste recycling project. Indonesia hops on board new recycling-for-rides scheme Indonesia's second-largest city has come up with a novel way to encourage its residents to recycle waste: giving free bus rides in exchange for used plastic bottles. Saskia O'Donoghue reports Glowee presents at Startup Battlefield Europe Glowee is a sustainable living light source powered by waste products and reusable biomass. Thier mission is to disrupt the way we produce and consume light. Glowee presents at Startup Battlefield Europe Finals Glowee is a sustainable living light source powered by waste products and reusable biomass. Their mission is to disrupt the way we produce and consume light. Meet Hello Kitty's biggest fan A former police officer in Japan has a collection worth a quarter of a million dollars. Endangered seal spotted with knife in mouth A conservation officer captured the shocking sight of an endangered monk seal pup in Hawaii, armed with a blade in its mouth. Bingo Industries wants to buy Dial A Dump 21 Aug 2018 - Waste management company Bingo Industries (ASX:BIN) saw net profit for the full year rise 91.6 per cent to $38 million from $19.8 million on the prior corresponding period. Florida police officer makes emotional radio farewell ahead of retirement A Florida police officer makes an emotional radio farewell as he retires after serving the city of Sarasota for 30 years. Mobile Gold Our waste is worth money. Recovering it has started up a new global industry worth billions. Police officer accused of car attack acted like a bully, court told A police officer acted like a "bully in uniform" after sawing through a suspect's car windscreen, a court has heard. SA women create beautiful handbags from Toyota car seats and waste material Toyota has found a way to reduce its monthly landfill waste by donating all its waste seat cover material to Esikhumulweni Cooperative Limited to be transformed into all kinds of wearable accessories. Baby 'saved' by police officer A Florida officer rushes to action when a mother flags him down to help her unresponsive baby. Starbucks to phase out plastic straws Starbucks Corp. said on Monday it will begin phasing out use of plastic straws at its restaurants by 2020, giving environmentalists a sizeable victory in their campaign to convince restaurants to abandon plastic utensils. Police officer pulls cobra from minivan The officer in China's south-west Yunnan province pulled the king cobra out from the dashboard. Flare explodes in worker's hands at recycling plant This is the terrifying moment a flare explodes in a recycling plant worker's hands while he was sifting through rubbish at a plant.

Amey, the company that owns the facility, is urging people not to throw fire-risk materials into their bins. Mayor apologises for cop killer gaffe John Cranley mistakenly proclaimed a day honouring the killer rather than the police officer who died. Chicago shooting: Two hospital employees and police officer among four dead An emergency room physician and a police officer have been named among the four people killed during a shooting at a Chicago hospital. Dominican Republic: The battle against trash The Dominican Republic has a refuse problem. Most trash is neither sorted nor recycled. In San Cristobal, the German development agency GIZ is helping to set up a modern trash disposal and recycling system. Trump consoles slain officer's mother The US president shared a warm moment with the elderly mother of a fallen New York police officer Miosotis Familia.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.