Mxolisi Mngadi At least 12 people have been arrested for various offences in a police blitz in Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni police said on Saturday. Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) spokesperson Chief Superintendent Wilfred Kgasago said police seized drugs, including mandrax and dagga, with an estimated street value of R103 000.  Two firearms and a stolen vehicle were recovered in the operation conducted by the EMPD's Public Order Policing, K9, First Responder, Drug Enforcement, SWAT units as well as the Vosloorus Precinct members from 09:00 to 18:00 on Friday. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. A 22-year-old woman and a man, 43, were arrested at Mnguni Hostel when they were found with a 9kg bag of dagga and 2000 zip-locks of dagga valued at R90 000. A 32-year-old man was nabbed along Mokgele Street for possession of an unlicensed 9mm pistol with its serial numbers filed off. It was loaded with live ammunition. Two men aged 26 and 38 were arrested at Extension 28 after they were found in possession of mandrax tablets and ziplocks of nyaope with a combined street value of R7 000. Four other suspects were bust in possession of a variety of smaller amounts of crystal meth, khat and nyaope valued at R6 000, said Kgasago. "A red Toyota Tazz stolen in Boksburg was recovered in Phumula as well as a homemade firearm capable of shooting .22 ammunition. One driver was also locked up for drinking and driving," he said. Kgasago said all the arrested were charged at the Vosloorus police station and are expected to appear in the Vosloorus Magistrate’s Court soon. "The festive season operations are on-going and all the pre-identified hotspots will be pounced upon until January 2019," he added.  WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. WATCH: Free State police department confirms sleeping traffic cop is 'on medication' The Free State Department of Police, Roads and Transport has responded to a viral video of a traffic officer apparently caught sleeping on the job. Policeman being attacked by bull! Bull attacking police officer. WATCH: IPID probe case of police brutality after woman's arrest The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is investigating a case of police brutality after a Pretoria West woman was pulled by her hair and violently shoved into a police van. "Yellow vests": Arrests, water cannons on the Champs-Elysees Police arrest "yellow vest" protesters and use tear gas and water cannons to disperse the crowd on the Champs-Elysees. Mexican 'cowboy' stops armed robbery After a man walked in carrying a gun, it fell to one cowboy-hat wearing man to stop him. Turkey - A people arms itself Every year, some 4500 people are shot to death in Turkey - the majority of them women and children. There are an estimated 25 million pistols and privately owned firearms in the country. Yet Turks continue to buy guns. 3-D printed guns promoter detained in Taiwan 3-D printed gun promoter Cody Wilson was detained in Taipei on Friday and ordered to leave the country. He fled to Taiwan when he learned police were investigating an accusation he had sex with an underage girl. Jane Lanhee Lee reports. Gun in Fredericton shooting legal, suspect had license: Police Fredericton police say the gun they believe was used in Friday's shooting that killed four people is “commonly available” for sale in Canada. Police added Monday that the suspect arrested in the case has a gun licence. Police shoot dead man holding phone Officers who followed Stephon Clark to his grandmother's backyard say they thought he had a gun. Police charge 48-year-old man with murder in Fredericton shooting Matthew Vincent Raymond has been charged with four counts of first-degree murder in the shooting deaths of four people in Fredericton. Police allege the suspect was shooting a long gun from an "elevated position." 'No rational reason' to own a gun in Toronto: MP Adam Vaughan Toronto Liberal MP Adam Vaughan is questioning why anyone would need to own a gun in the city. Vaughan says gun ownership laws need to be re-examined following Sunday's fatal shooting in the city's Greektown. 3D-printed guns become legal in the US Gun rights activists have reached a settlement with the US government that allows them to post 3D-printable gun plans online from August. Students stage mass walkouts over Florida Students across the US leave classes for 17 minutes to remember victims and call for stricter gun laws. Ousted Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn re-arrested in Japan Ousted former Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn is re-arrested in Tokyo on fresh allegations that he shifted more than $16 million of personal investment losses onto Nissan. Baghdad gun shops thrive after Iraqi rethink on arms control Iraqi authorities have granted some shops the licenses to sell weapons to locals in the capital, as citizens seek protection against crime. Man took cell photos of Chicago hospital shooter Man took cell phone photos of the Chicago gunman who killed three people; He says his experience was so horrific he couldn't sleep. Shotgun fail! A man fires a gun and is caught out by the recoil. Traffic stop ends in dramatic shootout The fleeing suspect grabs a gun and opens fire as police officers dive for cover and shoot back. Americans gather for gun control rally Gatherings are taking place across the country to call for change. Trump back in step with NRA after doubts over Parkland shooting President Donald Trump enthusiastically embraced the National Rifle Association on Friday, vowing to protect Second Amendment rights despite suggesting after a Florida school shooting that he would take on the powerful gun-rights group. Athens church blast injures two A homemade explosive device went off this morning at the church of St. Dionysus in central Athens injuring its caretaker and a police officer. Two injured in blast outside Athens church A homemade explosive device went off this morning at the church of St. Dionysus in central Athens injuring its caretaker and a police officer. Police in Texas save boy who jumps from burning building Body camera video shows the moment Texas police officers save a boy who jumps from the second-storey window of a burning building. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. WATCH: Rubber bullets and teargas answer Westbury residents' pleas in fight against drugs, gun viole While drug dealing and the accompanying gun violence have been on the increase in Westbury, residents say their calls for a safer, drug-free community seem to go unheard as police allegedly fail to respond to complaints. 'Every day, another family is crying' The parents of a teenager shot dead in Liverpool urge people to hand over their guns to police. Trump signs memo on gun 'bump stocks' Mr Trump signs an order to ban bump-stock devices that convert semi-automatic rifles into rapid-fire weapons. Strasbourg shooting probe turns to associates Strasbourg's Christmas market is reopening after a police shootout killed Cherif Chekatt, the gunman who slew several people there on Tuesday. French prosecutors say the investigation is now focused on whether the religious extremist had accomplices. Syrian state media's coverage of protests in France and Syria The Syrian state media have been covering police brutality against the Yellow Vest protesters in France. Here's how the same media outlets covered protests in Syria in 2011.
#France #YellowVests #Syria Kanye West's family rally Kanye West was joined by his father Ray West, wife Kim Kardashian West and daughter North West at a gun control rally in Washington DC over the weekend. Police dog's new snow boots take some getting used to Jary the police dog learns to walk in his new snow boots at Rapid City Police Department in South Dakota WATCH: Woman says police forced motorist to withdraw money at road block A video of an altercation between police officers and a woman at the Honeydew police station has gone viral. Grace Millane: Body found in backpacker murder probe A body believed to be British backpacker Grace Millane has been found near a beauty spot on the outskirts of Auckland.

Detective Inspector Scott Beard, of Auckland City Police, said formal identification was yet to take place, although "based on ... Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. WATCH: CCTV emerges of Sasol garage chaos as thugs target Global Citizens concertgoers What was supposed to be an exciting ending to a day filled with international entertainment, turned out to be a horrific ordeal for concertgoers outside the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg on Sunday evening. Faith healer accused of sexual abuse turns himself in A Brazilian faith healer who was accused of sexual abuse by more than 300 women has turned himself in a day after being officially ruled a fugitive. Tear gas and arrests as Paris hit by new yellow vest protests Police fired tear gas and arrested hundreds of people in Paris as the French capital went on lockdown for the latest yellow vest protests against President Emmanuel Macron. #Yellowvest #Paris #Protests WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Police claim clerical sex abuse testimony in Loughlinisland document seizure Confidential testimony from alleged sex abuse victims of a notorious priest are among sensitive files seized by detectives investigating two film makers. Trevor Birney and Barry McCaffrey were arrested earlier this year over the alleged theft of a... WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.