Kailin Daniels BENEFICIARIES of the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) are reminded that the cut-off date for renewing or applying for a new card, is on Friday, December 14, as the old card will expire at the end of December. SASSA is busy with the migration of social grants from the old SASSA card to the new gold SASSA card. Beneficiaries can go to the nearest SASSA office or post office to swap the old card for a new one. They have to be in possession of their ID documents and the old card, in order for the new card to be issued. The process is said to take less than five minutes. SASSA said in a media statement, the upgraded SASSA card applies to all current beneficiaries of social grants as well as new applicants. However, the upgrade to a new card will not apply to beneficiaries who are currently receiving a social grant via their own bank accounts with commercial banks of their choice. According to the head of communication at SASSA, Paseka Letsatsi, the new SASSA card has security features that the old one does not have. “For example the new card does not allow for unauthorised or illegal deductions,” Letsatsi said. Beneficiaries who are still in possession of the old SASSA card, even after the cut-off date, risk losing their social grant benefits, as SASSA will no longer pay grants into the old card. Letsatsi added, “The renewal of cards is for beneficiaries who do not have their own bank account or prefer to withdraw their money from institutions such as Shoprite.” Commenting on this latest milestone, the acting CEO of SASSA, Abraham Mahlangu, pointed out that, “We are pleased to have complied with the instructions of the Concourt, particularly in ensuring that SASSA gets rid of any contractual ties with the Cash Paymaster Services (CPS).” He further added, “We urge all remaining beneficiaries of social grants who are still in possession of the old SASSA card to urgently swap them for the new gold SASSA card. “We also wish to warn beneficiaries that soon we will no longer make any social grant payments into these old cards.” According to Letsatsi, beneficiaries who still haven’t swapped their old cards for the new gold SASSA card, could risk denying themselves a constitutional right to social assistance.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.