Kaveel Singh WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. Marshall Security spokesperson Kyle van Reenen confirmed that she was found unharmed a few hours after being taken. "She was found in the Newlands area by the [police]. She has not sustained any physical injuries and has been taken by police for further investigation and processing. The hijacking investigation is ongoing." Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane also confirmed she was found. He earlier said the woman, thought to be in her 50s, was leaving her business when she was attacked. "It is unclear why she was taken," he said, appealing to anyone who witnessed the incident to contact Crime Stop or 10111 urgently with information. Van Reenen said four males armed with handguns had accosted the woman. A video of the incident shows the men first grabbing the shocked woman's car keys. They appear to only want to take the vehicle, but one of the men then grabs her and they bundle her into her car, before speeding off.   Hate parking? This car shrinks itself to fit The latest entry into the market for tiny cars that can fit into tiny parking spaces may come from Israel, with a concept electric vehicle that can shrink its wheelbase to the size of a motorcycle. Matthew Larotonda reports Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. Police scape from death! Policeman dodging car Official: Avenatti in custody on domestic violence Official: Avenatti in custody on domestic violence Tesco, Volkswagen to develop UK electric vehicle charging network Britain's biggest retailer Tesco has announced a deal with German automaker Volkswagen to develop 2,400 charging bays at 600 Tesco stores across the UK over the next three year. Francis Maguire reports on an industry in the midst of an electric revol Loading cars safely Forty percent of Germans vacation by car. But with all that luggage, it's important to know the safe way to load your vehicle. You can also save time and frustration by planning things right. One dead in Australian terror attack: police Australian police said one person was dead after a man stabbed three people in the city of Melbourne and that they are treating the attack as terrorism. Gunmen kidnap Italian woman in Kenya An armed gang has abducted an Italian woman from a village in southeast Kenya, shooting and wounding five residents in the raid, police say. Best winter getaway cars for less than GBP10,000 If you're planning to hit the road for leisure in the coming months, it would be worth having a car that can face the conditions. Here are some sub-GBP10,000 used cars that are up to the task. China cuts duty on U.S. car imports Auto sales in slow lane, low demand and high rates dent autos. Auto sales in the slow lane Tepid demand for passenger cars 'Young women are incredible' Women in Spain are marking International Women's Day with a strike targeting gender inequality and sexual discrimination. Lexus Owners Club Cape Town rally together for a special send off Laurika Walters needed a car for her farewell and the Lexus Owners Club Cape Town stepped up for the special event. Life Beyond a Gender Label Some people might shrug it off as a fad; others take the path of self-righteousness and judgment. Police crackdown on uninsured M25 drivers Ten police forces combined for Operation Tutelage. The operation saw uninsured drivers targeted, and arrests for other offences including drug-driving. Chinese female pilot hopes sky's the limit for gender equality Chinese female pilots are hoping the sky's the limit as they try and tackle gender inequality.  At the end of 2017 there were only 713 female pilots licensed to fly civilian aircraft compared to 55,052 men. Peugeot 508 sedan The new mid-range French car combines strikingly elegant design with sportiness and high safety. Our test car is powered by a two-liter diesel engine, which of course meets the latest emissions standard. Bye Bye Car Driverless cars will be how we move around in the future. In 10 years' time, Ford Motors' Bill Ford says his company will sell mobility, not cars. We ask the experts, including Tesla pioneer Elon Musk, what they think the future has in store for us. Is Gender-Neutral Clothing The Future of Fashion? Companies are finally embracing the idea that physical objects don't have gender identities. WATCH: Free State police department confirms sleeping traffic cop is 'on medication' The Free State Department of Police, Roads and Transport has responded to a viral video of a traffic officer apparently caught sleeping on the job. Trudeau urged to raise concerns of marginalized women with G7 Feminist activists are reminding Justin Trudeau to look beyond entrepreneurship when gender equality is discussed at June's G7 summit. The prime minister says he wants to better learn how intersectionality can be part of the discussion. 'Just a start of a huge career' in fashion says Serena Williams following sexism row Serena Williams talked about her fashion business and her family, but not tennis fouls during a Friday (14 September) appearance before a business trade group in Las Vegas. WATCH: Man called racial slur after accidentally bumping woman with car in Margate Warren Mark was shocked and appalled when a fellow shopper not only keyed his car but also called him a racial slur outside a shopping centre in Margate, KwaZulu-Natal. The derogatory word is used to refer to people of Indian descent in South Africa. The First Female Astronauts Weren't Allowed Into Space #TIL women are better astronauts than men...too bad misogyny kept them from space. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. 'I dream of being an astronaut' – Durban matriculant with 11 distinctions A Durban matriculant who achieved 11 distinctions in 2017's IEB examinations says she dreams of being an astronaut. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking. WATCH: 'There's no outbreak of salmonella in KZN' – health department tries to quell fears There have been a number of laboratory-confirmed cases of salmonella in Durban but there is no "outbreak" of infections in the province, KwaZulu-Natal health authorities said on Monday. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. What you should know about cruising with MSC Musica in South Africa Gabi Zietsman from Traveller24 visited the MSC Musica in Durban's port for the launch of the summer cruise season in South Africa, and picked up a few tips for first-time passengers. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. Arkansas traffic-stop shootout caught by dashcam Dramatic dashcam video shows a sheriff’s deputy in a shootout following a traffic stop in Arkansas. About 40 shots were fired during the shootout Sunday. The suspect was later caught and faces attempted murder and other charges. Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. Six boys arrested in St. Michael’s assault investigation Six teens have been arrested and charged after an alleged sexual assault at St. Michael’s private school in Toronto. Police say anyone in possession of the video of the alleged incident should delete it immediately. Westminster attack: Pc Keith Palmer's death ruled as 'preventable' Chief Coroner Mark Lucraft QC finds shortcomings in security on the day of the Westminster terror attack which led to the death of five people including Pc Keith Palmer. 'Yellow vest' protests: Tensions flare in Paris (2) Paris police use tear gas against 'yellow vest' protesters on the Champs Elysées, enforcing a perimeter around the Concorde and the Elysée Palace, as demonstrations turn violent. 'Yellow vest' protests: Tensions flare in Paris Paris police use tear gas against 'yellow vest' protesters on the Champs Elysées, enforcing a perimeter around the Concorde and the Elysée Palace, as demonstrations turn violent. Online campaign for security guard killed by US police officer An online fundraiser has raised over $130,000 for Jemel Roberson, the black security guard who was shot dead by a US police officer. Roberson held down a gunman and waited for police to arrive.

Police shot Roberson upon arrival at the scene. He l... Two police officers killed after gunmen storm Karachi Chinese Consulate Two policemen are killed as gunmen storm the Chinese Consulate in Karachi. Authorities say the attackers opened fire at consulate guards before breaching the main gate. The three gunmen who stormed were then shot dead by police. Northern California wildfire death toll at 56 At least 56 people are now known dead in the massive Northern California wildfire. Authorities say 130 people are unaccounted for. U.S. plans to rewrite rules that impede self-driving cars The Trump administration is moving ahead with plans to revise safety rules that bar fully self-driving cars from the roads without equipment such as steering wheels, pedals and mirrors. New petrol and diesel vehicles to be banned from 2040 in bid to tackle pollution New diesel and petrol cars and vans will be banned from 2040 as part of efforts to tackle air pollution, UK Environment Secretary Michael Gove has said. He also pledged to work with local authorities developing diesel scrappage schemes. Motorist storms runway of Lyon airport during intense police chase A 31-year old man rammed into a fence in Lyon international airport after entering the runway. Dozens of police and security officers on cars, motorcycles and even a helicopter took part in the operation. The offender left the car and attempted to... NASCAR Welcome to the adrenaline-fuelled world of NASCAR and the people who keep the cars on the oval.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.