Pelane Phakgadi Black First Land First (BLF) members led by Andile Mngxitama and Zanele Lwaini protest in Centurion. (Alet Pretorius/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Law Society of South Africa (LSSA) says it is deeply concerned about increasing "criminal behaviour" in and around court buildings and against legal practitioners. Its comments were made in reference to an attack on a female advocate in Johannesburg last week, by people wearing Black First Land First (BLF) T-shirts. "Although we accept the right of political entities and members of the public to protest, violence and destruction can never be condoned," LSSA co-chairpersons, Mvuzo Notyesi and Ettienne Barnard, said. READ: Johannesburg Bar council member victim of 'vicious racial attack' by BLF members The law society said assault was a criminal offence and it urged authorities to investigate the matter urgently and to "bring the perpetrators to book". "The attack involving the woman advocate is doubly unacceptable, having taken place during the 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence," they added. ALSO READ: BLF leader in hot water over 'kill whites' comments Meanwhile, BLF president Andile Mngxitama is in hot water following comments he allegedly made over the weekend at his party's rally in Potchefstroom in the North West, where he reportedly urged his supporters to kill five white people for every one black person that dies because of taxi violence. His Twitter account was suspended after he repeated the words online. The Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) indicated in a tweet on Monday, that it "note(s) the serious allegations against the BLF's leader. The commission will offer the party an opportunity to clarify its statements in the light of the values of the Constitution. We will assess the matter for an appropriate course of action after receiving a response". Trade union Solidarity said on Monday that it would approach the IEC and file a complaint against Mngxitama to stop his party from participating in next year's elections. Solidarity said in a statement that "Section 16(1)(c) of the Electoral Commission Act makes it clear that the chief electoral officer may not register a party if such party is guilty of the incitement of violence or discrimination in accordance with generally accepted grounds". The Democratic Alliance (DA) said on Monday that it has reported the matter to the South African Human Rights Commission and the Equality Court.  We have reported #AndileMgxithama to the South African Human Rights Commission and the Equality Court following his vile and distasteful remarks which he incites violence against white South Africans.https://t.co/5POYIcrw5i  WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. SA farmers 'sadistic and racist' - judge Two white farmers who forced a black man into a coffin "intended to kill the victim", says judge. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. German minister suggests voluntary colonialism for Africa The African Union has rejected a proposal by a German minister suggesting foreign powers acquire land in Africa to stop migration. #voluntary #colonialism #Africa Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. Thousands of white workers protest Sasol black scheme White employees of Sasol say the South African energy company is discriminating against them by offering a share scheme exclusively to black staff. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels for summit EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels to review relations and discuss ways of intensifying and broadening their cooperation, at the 7th summit between the two sides, which takes place 100 years after Nelson Mandela's birth. The summit will... WATCH: Report shows over six million SA children live below the poverty line Over six million children in South Africa still live below the food poverty line, according to the Child Gauge 2018 report released on Tuesday. Winnie Harlow Flags too early at Canadian Grand Prix Top model Winnie Harlow got caught up in some chaos at a recent Grand Prix race in Montreal. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. Officer charged in black teen’s death An East Pittsburgh police officer has been charged with criminal homicide in the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager that sparked a wave of protests. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 1 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.
Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Nigeria clash will be 'tough' - Baxter South Africa prepared in Johannesburg on Friday (16th November) for their AFCON 2019 qualifier against Group E leaders Nigeria. Why a black man hugged a neo-Nazi skinhead A white supremacist walked into the middle of an anti-fascist rally - this is what happened next. WATCH: Looters target truck trapped by too low bridge The driver of this RTT Intelligent Logistics truck found himself stuck between a bridge he could not pass under and a group of waiting looters late last week. S. Africa sets path to seize white farmers' land South Africa's president is pushing legislation that will allow the government to seize private property without compensating the owner. Expropriation is an emotive subject in the country, where only four percent of land is in black hands over two... US mum claims racial profiling at pool A black woman claims a white man asked her to show identification to prove she belonged to a pool. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Rihanna makes history as new 'British Vogue Cover Girl' Rihanna has officially cemented her place in British Vogue history as the first black woman to be featured on the cover of the magazine's September issue. Rihanna the first black woman on cover of Vogue's September issue Pop superstar Rihanna has been unveiled as the cover star for British Vogue's September issue. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. Waste not: South Africa makes world's first human urine brick One day, when nature calls, your urine could be put to better use than to be flushed down the loo. Instead it could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Black Friday chaos captured on camera in South Africa Shoppers in Potchefstroom sprint into Game as the store opens at midnight as Black Friday chaos hits South Africa. Some bargain hunters chose the risky route of climbing over trollies. Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. WATCH: Mihalik was the first member of the Cape Bar Council to be assassinated - Ismail Jamie SC Pete Mihalik was the first member of the Cape Bar to be assassinated, said bar chairperson Ismail Jamie, SC, after a private memorial service for the advocate in Cape Town on Monday. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. 'Black people think I have white privilege' Albino model Joanne Dion struggles to fit into black or white communities. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. Does the royal wedding improve race relations in the UK? Anti-racism campaigner Adam Elliot-Cooper talks about the contradictions of the royal wedding. Does the introduction of Meghan Markle to the royal family have an impact to ordinary black people on the ground? French President meets South African President at G20 summit French President Emannuel Macron meets South African President Cyril Ramaphosa during G20 summit in Buenos Aires. 'Do Not Touch My Hair' Grazia is the latest UK magazine to be criticised for airbrushing the hair of black women. Lupita Nyong'o complained she'd been made to appear more "Eurocentric" on the front cover Black arm wrestler's big fight Arm wrestler Bonginkosi Madonsela says he is on a mission to bring the sport to the black community in South Africa. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. The most powerful black person in the UK Gina Miller, the campaigner who won a Brexit legal challenge against the government, has been named as the country's most influential black person. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.