Riaan Grobler Fans gathered at the Global Citizen concert. (Getty/Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Global Citizen and the House of Mandela are "deeply disturbed" by the reports of criminal attacks on concertgoers as they exited the event venue on Sunday night. "The safety of our guests is always of paramount importance to us and we understand and strongly empathise with their hurt and anger," Andrew Kirk, global director of PR for Global Citizen, said in a statement. News24 reported on Monday that people leaving the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 event were attacked by gangs of juveniles and stabbed and robbed of cellphones and handbags, according to countless social media posts. According to witnesses, the attacks happened in the vicinity of the Sasol garage, situated close to the FNB Stadium in Soweto, in the early hours of Monday morning. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. READ: 'Horrifying' gang attacks, stabbings and robberies ruin Global Citizen event Global stars such as Ed Sheeran, Eddie Vedder, Beyoncé and Jay-Z performed at the event, hosted by Mandela 100 and the Motsepe Foundation. Vanessa Perumal, music publicist and managing director at JT Communication Solutions, told News24 that she had attended countless concerts as part of her work and had never experienced anything like this before. "I can't tell you how shocking it was," Perumal said. "We were walking with thousands of people past the buses towards the Sasol garage to get an Uber. Then we heard people screaming. It was the weirdest thing possible. Youngsters, boys, were running towards us and stealing phones and pulling bags off people. It was chaos, it was so unreal. How was this even possible?" On Monday, national SAPS spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said: "We are only aware of one robbery, for which one suspect has been arrested. We have not had other cases reported to us yet." According to Kirk, "The South African Police Service [is] requesting all victims of wrongdoing to file a police report, which we strongly encourage." On Monday, countless people tweeted their personal experiences of being attacked following the event. Watching 'Macron's aide' attack protesters Eyewitness account of a man later identified as Alexandre Benalla attacking protesters. WATCH: Marinda Steyn takes the stand in Krugersdorp murder trial WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State finished its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Save the Children office in Afghanistan attacked Insurgents have attacked Save the Children's provincial office in Jalalabad, Afghanistan.

No one has yet claimed responsibility for the attack. Saudi-led coalition air strike hits bus in Yemen An air strike on a bus in Yemen's Saada province killed at least 29 children, as the Saudi-led coalition faced a growing outcry over the attack. Cabbie: 'They were in tears, panicking' Manchester cabbie Mann Singh said he helped get people away from the attack scene. London attack: The eyewitness accounts The attack through the eyes of people on London Bridge. Police officers recall horrors of Manchester terror attack Police officers have recalled the horrors of the Manchester terror attack.

They gathered for a ceremony to recognise the actions of police and rail staff following the attack in May. Why are suspected Islamist militants attacking Mozambique? They have carried out attacks in northern Mozambique since October German man sets his dogs on Syrian refugee A German man set his two dogs on a Syrian family in the city of Magdeburg after racially abusing them. One of the Syrian me was left bleeding from the arm after the attack. Coordinated attacks rock Somalia's capital Militants from Somalia's al Shabaab group stormed a government building housing the security and interior ministries on Saturday, after twin bombings rocked the capital. Chicago police release bodycam video of shooting Chicago police on Sunday released body camera footage of officers shooting dead a black man as he reached for his concealed handgun, hoping to quell two days of violent and peaceful protests that had branded the incident a case of police brutality. 'Don't let my daughter be a victim' Olivia Campbell's mother Charlotte spoke at a vigil in Bury on Wednesday night, urging people not to let the attack beat them. Arkansas traffic-stop shootout caught by dashcam Dramatic dashcam video shows a sheriff’s deputy in a shootout following a traffic stop in Arkansas. About 40 shots were fired during the shootout Sunday. The suspect was later caught and faces attempted murder and other charges. Mogadishu car bomb kills at least seven civilians Images show the aftermath of a car-bomb blast in a busy market in Mogadishu. Seven civilians were killed and five were wounded in the attack in the Somalian capital. The explosion occurred after security forces stopped a suspicious vehicle at the ... Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. Westminster attack: Pc Keith Palmer's death ruled as 'preventable' Chief Coroner Mark Lucraft QC finds shortcomings in security on the day of the Westminster terror attack which led to the death of five people including Pc Keith Palmer. 'Yellow vest' protests: Tensions flare in Paris Paris police use tear gas against 'yellow vest' protesters on the Champs Elysées, enforcing a perimeter around the Concorde and the Elysée Palace, as demonstrations turn violent. 'Yellow vest' protests: Tensions flare in Paris (2) Paris police use tear gas against 'yellow vest' protesters on the Champs Elysées, enforcing a perimeter around the Concorde and the Elysée Palace, as demonstrations turn violent. Online campaign for security guard killed by US police officer An online fundraiser has raised over $130,000 for Jemel Roberson, the black security guard who was shot dead by a US police officer. Roberson held down a gunman and waited for police to arrive.

Police shot Roberson upon arrival at the scene. He l... Two police officers killed after gunmen storm Karachi Chinese Consulate Two policemen are killed as gunmen storm the Chinese Consulate in Karachi. Authorities say the attackers opened fire at consulate guards before breaching the main gate. The three gunmen who stormed were then shot dead by police. Northern California wildfire death toll at 56 At least 56 people are now known dead in the massive Northern California wildfire. Authorities say 130 people are unaccounted for. Witness recounts California bar shooting Witness recounts California bar shooting during which a gunman killed 12 people, including a police officer. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Six boys arrested in St. Michael’s assault investigation Six teens have been arrested and charged after an alleged sexual assault at St. Michael’s private school in Toronto. Police say anyone in possession of the video of the alleged incident should delete it immediately. Monkey attack fail! Monkey attacking man in zoo Gunmen kidnap Italian woman in Kenya An armed gang has abducted an Italian woman from a village in southeast Kenya, shooting and wounding five residents in the raid, police say. Family of IS-inspired bombers target churches in Indonesia Three churches in Indonesia's second biggest city Surabaya are targeted in suicide bomb attacks, suspected to have been carried out by an Islamic State-inspired group. The Fear That Has 1,000 Eyes: Cities in the Age of Terrorism Each recent terrorist attack has led to an increase in security: new laws, surveillance of individuals, trade and financial transactions, more cameras, biometric scanning, ever-expanding security architecture. When will the next attack take place? Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. Tribute at the Stade de France on 3-year anniversary of attacks Three years after the jihadist attacks of November 13, 2015, French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe, members of the government and elected officials pay tribute to the victims of the attack by the Stade de France. Second World War veteran, 98, dies after violent robbery at home A Second World War veteran who was seriously injured in a violent robbery in his home has died.

Peter Gouldstone had been left badly hurt following the attack in north London last month. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Two men sought after 'despicable' theft of Poppy tin Police are looking to identify two men being sought in connection with the theft of a Poppy Appeal collection tin from a hotel near Heathrow Airport. Guesthouse where gunmen abducted Italian woman on Kenya coast Images of the guesthouse in a village in southeastern Kenya where an armed gang abducted an Italian woman on Tuesday evening. The gang shot and wounded five residents in the raid, police say. Woman assaulted and robbed at cashpoint in Leytonstone Police have released this shocking CCTV footage in an attempt to trace a woman who punched, slapped and robbed a 40-year-old woman at a cashpoint in Leytonstone.

The victim was withdrawing money from a cashpoint, while a second woman in her late ... Local celebs chat Global Citizen at the Forever Young Gala Enhle Mbali, Pearl Thusi and Unathi Msengana looked stunning at the Forever Young Gala as they chatted about the legacy of Nelson Mandela and what they're most looking forward to at Global Citizen. Police receive two new videos in St. Michael’s investigation Toronto police have expanded their investigation into alleged assaults at St. Michael’s private school after receiving two new videos. Police say the videos involve a threat and an alleged assault with a weapon. Trial to start for man in fatal Virginia rally The trial is set to begin on Monday for an Ohio man charged with killing a woman after plowing his car into a group protesting a white nationalist rally in Virginia last year. Nathan Frandino has more. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. Thousands of white workers protest Sasol black scheme White employees of Sasol say the South African energy company is discriminating against them by offering a share scheme exclusively to black staff. Protesters in Paris clash with police for third weekend Dozens of people are arrested after protesters angry about rising taxes clash with French police for a third weekend in a row. Theresa May hails spirit of Grenfell Tower and terror attack survivors Theresa May has hailed the "triumph of the human spirit" in the wake of last year's terror attacks and the Grenfell Tower fire in her Easter message. Theresa May hails spirit of Grenfell Tower and terror attack survivors Theresa May has hailed the "triumph of the human spirit" in the wake of last year's terror attacks and the Grenfell Tower fire in her Easter message. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  