Jenna Etheridge Alex Boraine (Jenna Etheridge, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Alex Boraine, the late former vice-chairperson of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), was on Thursday fondly remembered for his energy, determination and vision for a better country. Friends, family and public figures packed the Christ Church in Constantia, Cape Town, on Thursday afternoon to pay their last respects. Boraine died at the age of 87 in his home in a retirement village in Constantia, last Wednesday. His son, Jeremy Boraine, said at the time that his father had been in remission from cancer but had a recent decline in health. WATCH: White people failed the TRC by not attending - Peter Storey Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. "He had a fall a week ago and stopped eating. He just became weaker and weaker." Those in attendance at the service included former TRC chairperson Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu, former finance minister Trevor Manuel, GOOD leader Patricia de Lille and former Agang leader Mamphela Ramphele. SA owes him 'a great debt of gratitude' Tutu noted: "It would have been fitting for our president to give Alex an official funeral. I am sad that this has not happened. "Our country owes Alex a great debt of gratitude for the outstanding work he did as vice-chair of the TRC." Tutu said it was thanks to Boraine's planning that the TRC got off the ground. He also thanked Boraine's family for their support as he sacrificed his time and effort for reconciliation. Boraine is most famous for proposing the TRC and being its vice-chair alongside Tutu from 1996 to 1998. He was also the co-founder of the Institute of Democracy in South Africa along with Fredrick van Zyl Slabbert. He is survived by his wife Jennifer Boraine, his four children Andrew, Kathryn, Jeremy and Nicholas, their spouses, and seven grandchildren. His family members took turns at the service reading his two chosen bible passages, singing a song for him and paying tribute. They thanked everyone for their attendance, comfort and support. "We acknowledge the many hundreds of messages of support received from fellow South Africans and from friends all over the world," they said in his memorial pamphlet. Anyone who would like to share an anecdote, memory, photograph or voice note for the family's living archive on Boraine, can send their contribution to alexborainememorial@gmail.com  Memorial pamphlet with Alex Boraine, his family and snapshots in time  WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. WATCH: Police use stun grenades to disperse picketing MyCiti protesters Police have fired stun grenades at MyCiti bus drivers on strike in the Cape Town CBD. Absa Premiership 2018/19 profile: Cape Town City A look at the profile of Absa Premiership side Cape Town City ahead of the 2018/19 season. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. May dons dancing shoes in SA The prime minister shimmied with school kids in Cape Town at the start of her visit to Africa. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. What goes on behind-the-scenes on a game show Channel24 was invited to a taping of celebrity trivia game show Tropika Smoooth Fan in Cape Town and we're giving you a behind-the-scenes look! Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? Was Mandela a hero or a 'sell-out'? The BBC asked young South Africans for their views on anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela. WATCH: Peter Storey on how Rivonia Trial prisoners on Robben Island changed him Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. 'Rainbow nation' is still a dream in South Africa With few prospects for the future, the freedom Nelson Mandela fought for has little to offer young people. Today's South Africa has many troubles, including a high proportion of people without jobs. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. Theresa May visits Nelson Mandela's cell on Robben Island Theresa May visits Robben Island in South Africa, which housed political prisoner Nelson Mandela. The Prime Minister is on a three-day trip to Africa on a trade mission designed to bolster the UK's post-Brexit fortunes. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. WATCH: This 22-year-old accounting student is changing healthcare in his community When Thembekile Mahintsho's father died in 2015, the 22-year-old accounting student became determined to bring accessible healthcare to his community in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town. WATCH: This 22-year-old accounting student is changing healthcare in his community When Thembekile Mahintsho's father died in 2015, the 22-year-old accounting student became determined to bring accessible healthcare to his community in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. Kyle Abbott excited to make SA return at Durban Heat Former Proteas bowler Kyle Abbott says he is excited to be back playing cricket in South Africa for the Durban Heat in the Mzansi Super League. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.