-Supplied Source: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Feast of Flavours Pork is unique as a flavour carrier, as it is the only meat
type that combines superbly with all the sensory taste combinations and
textures. (Savoury, sweet, sour, smokey, bitter, smooth, crisp, meltingly
tender, chunky, crunchy, robust, delicate and anything in between.) Nothing beats pork when it comes to versatility and fusion
of flavours! It’s great with savoury tastes and loves to flirt with
almost any herbs and spices. Try sage, fennel, chives, coriander, mint, garlic,
parsley, marjoram, tarragon, chopped olives, sundried tomatoes, rocket,
goats/mozzarella cheese, grated lemon peel, Oriental sauces, rich brown gravy
or anything creative you can think of. Festive Food countdown - Recipe 10  (3 hours in oven) The secret of crispy crackling is to have the skin dry before cooking, so don’t oil it or baste it during cooking. Ingredients   1. Use a craft knife to cut all the way through the pork skin to make parallel
lines, cutting some additional lines to those made by the butcher, but taking care not to cut through
the string so the joint doesn’t unroll. 2. Use a small knife to cut into the pink meat and insert slices of garlic into the meat and under the skin. 3. Rub the salt into the skin. Leave the pork out for about an hour, or leave it in the fridge overnight, uncovered, for the
skin to dry out. 4. Set the
oven to its highest setting. Spread the sliced onion and
sage leaves out in a roasting tin. Quarter, peel and core
the apple, cut into slices and scatter over the onions. 5. Pour in the stock. Place the pork on top. Roast it in the centre of the oven for about 30 mins, until the skin starts to crisp up, then reduce the oven temperature to 180°C/Gas
Mark 4, and cook for a further 2-2¼ hours. If the skin hasn’t formed crackling, turn up the oven
temperature until it’s crisped — take care not to cook it for too long at the higher temperature or the meat may dry out.  This post and content is sponsored, written and provided by SA Pork. 