Sesona Ngqakamba Prophet Paseka 'Mboro' Motsoeneng of the Incredible Happenings Ministries has asked his followers to fund his legal fees. (Veli Nhlapo, Gallo Images, Sowetan) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Self-proclaimed prophet, Paseka Mboro Motsoeneng, is seeking legal advice about a case which the chairperson of the Cultural, Religious and Linguistics (CRL) Rights Commission opened against him. Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva opened a case against Motsoeneng on Wednesday for allegedly calling her a liar and accusing her of fraud on television in violation of a protection order against him. Spokesperson for the Hillbrow police station, Sergeant Mduduzi Zondo, confirmed that a case was opened and was being investigated. However, other than to say that he was seeking legal advice, Motsoeneng told News24 that he was not in the country and that he would give a more detailed comment once he has returned. Motsoeneng said the issue was a legal matter which he wanted to be thoroughly explain through his lawyers once he was back in South Africa. He reiterated that he wanted to reply with "proper facts" because it was a legal issue. "As far as I know, there is no crime I did, but I need to give you the facts. "Can you give me time to reply and explain? And I need my lawyer to help me. I need to put the facts," Motsoeneng said. According to the CRL Commission, the Johannesburg Central Magisterial District Family Court issued a protection order against Motsoeneng on October 4, 2017 and authorised a warrant of arrest, which was suspended subject to him complying with its terms and conditions. "He breached 3.1(c)(ii) of the order, which states that the respondent (Prophet Motsoeneng) is prohibited to engage in verbal, electronic or in any other communication aimed at the complainant (Mrs Mkhwanazi-Xaluva) by any means, whether or not conversation ensues to humiliate, degrade the complainant or abuse her emotionally. "He also breached 3.2 (a) which states that the respondent shall not insult, ridicule the complainant, including name calling by any means at any place and including in the media or television by any means or make any influence or induce or incite such conduct. 3.2 (b) further states that he shall not belittle or disrespect the complainant by any means including harming her dignity or any attempts thereof or incite or induce such conduct or behaviour or abuse the complainant spiritually," commission spokesperson Mpiyakhe Mkholo said in a statement . Mkholo said Motsoeneng violated these prohibitions by calling Mkhwanazi-Xaluva a liar and accusing her of acquiring the same protection order fraudulently. "He made these utterances on eNCA on the 13/12/2018 in their morning programme at about 07:43. He further accused her of opening false cases against him," he said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.