Kaveel Singh Former President Kgalema Motlanthe and his spouse Gugu Mtshali, attend the special official funeral service of Mendi Msimang with President Cyril Ramaphosa and his wife, Dr Tshepo Motsepe. (Photo: Presidency) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former ANC treasurer general Mendi Msimang came from a generation of freedom fighters whose deeds will reverberate across the ages, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Saturday. "Certainly, most of the members of that generation may have exited the political stage, but the principles they fought for, the values they lived by and the means by which they sought their objectives still find resonance at this moment in our history." Ramaphosa was speaking at the funeral of the ANC stalwart in Silver Lakes, Pretoria. He said that Msimang showed a sterling record in his decade long leadership of the purse strings in the ruling party. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. "In that time, he was scrupulous in his determination that not one cent go missing, that no resources meant for the transformational programmes of the organisation be misappropriated or wasted. It is this quality that we seek in our leaders today." As the chief representative of the ANC in the United Kingdom, he was a dedicated and capable advocate for South Africa, Ramaphosa said. "Especially when faced with hostile opinion, he sought – patiently and with deliberate care – to explain the positions of the African National Congress." He said Msimang did not dismiss others because their views may be reactionary or ill-informed. Msimang was driven by a firm conviction that every person has the capacity to do good, to see sense, to make a meaningful contribution to society, the president said. "He had a remarkable ability to see beyond their prejudice, their anger, their frailties and to recognise their essential being. For that, he was much loved and widely admired." How to hold political office Speaking politics, Ramaphosa said there were enticements in political office that Msimang's generation did not adhere to. "The material temptations of political office have never been greater than they are today. As our people have realised, and as our movement has acknowledged, there are those among us who seek positions of authority not to serve the public good, but to advance private interests." He said there were people who were "prepared to undermine the institutions of our young democracy, to subvert the rule of law and to steal from the people to enrich themselves". "This cannot be countenanced, and this cannot be allowed to continue. It is at precisely this moment that we need leaders, cadres, public servants and business people of the calibre of Mendi Msimang." He added that Msimang argued with "great eloquence and conviction". "He was a person of great modesty and dignity. He treated others with respect, was moderate in demeanour and measured in his address. These may be commendable personality traits, but they are also profoundly political." 'Our people shouldn't have to travel hours to work' - Ramaphosa launches Atlantis economic hub "Our people shouldn't have to travel for hours and hours to work." That was the message from President Cyril Ramaphosa at the launch of the Atlantis Special Economic Zone in Cape Town on Thursday. VIDEO: Activists march 80kms from Marikana to Union Buildings demanding compensation for widows Two groups marched to the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Wednesday. The groups requested President Cyril Ramaphosa receive their memoranda who failed to appear. WATCH. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. WATCH | #CabinetReshuffle: Ramaphosa announces changes to National Executive President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to announce changes to the National Executive at the Union Buildings, Pretoria, at 15:00 on Thursday. Everything you need to know about Cyril Ramaphosa's #CabinetReshuffle President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced changes to the National Executive at the Union Buildings, Pretoria. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on EU to lift sanctions still in place against Zimbabwe Zimbabwe was on the agenda in talks President Cyril Ramaphosa had with European Union (EU) leaders on Thursday. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.