Jeanette Chabalala DA leader Mmusi Maimane (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The judgment handed down in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria on Thursday, in which former president Jacob Zuma was ordered to pay his own legal fees in his corruption case, should be "celebrated", DA leader Mmusi Maimane said. Zuma will have to pay his own legal costs which were incurred in his personal capacity in criminal cases instituted against him. In handing down his judgment, Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba said the decision the Presidency and the state attorney had taken, that the State would cover the legal costs Zuma incurred in his personal capacity, was invalid and he set it aside. READ: More woes for Jacob Zuma after court orders he is responsible for his legal fees Maimane later told reporters: "The judgment is something South Africans should celebrate". "It says that the deal between Zuma and [President Cyril] Ramaphosa is irrational and illegal and it sets that aside. It stops the cycle of corruption…and now people who want to steal people's money must think twice. I would hope Zuma would pay back and he owes us and the people of SA a lot of money," Maimane said. Maimane added that the "deal" between the governing party and Zuma was irrational. "I think this is a precedent-setting order...when people feel the taxpayers' money should be used for their own personal protection, that simply can't be allowed. As the DA, we fought against the system of corruption, we fought against the system that protects people that are corrupt and now we have cut the pipeline to protection." ALSO READ: Zuma legal fees: Dismiss DA case on basis of undue delay, lawyers argue The DA filed papers late in March, asking the court to set aside a 2006 agreement relating to legal costs Zuma incurred for his criminal prosecution, which the Presidency signed. This was after Ramaphosa revealed that the agreement, signed by Zuma under former president Thabo Mbeki, formed the basis of the decision to continue paying Zuma's legal fees in the so-called spy tapes case. Both the DA and EFF lodged applications in the High Court, asking it to set aside the decisions the state attorney made in Zuma's bid to have his legal costs funded by the state.    PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... 'We don't want any corruption' South Africans share their feelings about Zuma's presidency and what they hope for the future. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. 'I never thought we would choose corruption' Makhosi Khoza received death threats after branding President Jacob Zuma "a disgrace".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.