Tshidi Madia Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu. (Alon Skuy, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Embattled ANC Gauteng leaders Qedani Mahlangu and Brian Hlongwa have no other option but to resign from their roles as provincial executive committee (PEC) members. News24 has seen a letter in which Mahlangu is informed that the ANC's national working committee (NWC) has endorsed a recommendation that she steps down from the PEC. The letter was drafted by the Gauteng ANC's deputy provincial secretary, Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko, and was addressed to Mahlangu. ANC Gauteng secretary Jacob Khawe said a similar letter was sent to Hlongwa. "We asked them to step aside to self-correct, for personal growth and the protection of the ANC brand," Khawe told News24. In October, the party announced that the two would remain members of the PEC despite recommendations from the provincial integrity commission that they step down from the leadership structure and for their membership to be revoked for a period. READ: No chop for Mahlangu and Hlongwa from ANC Gauteng PEC Mahlangu, Gauteng's former health MEC, was hauled before the integrity commission for her role in the Life Esidimeni tragedy, which resulted in the death of at least 144 psychiatric patients after they were transferred from Life healthcare institutions to several unlicensed NGOs. Mahlangu resigned as MEC in February 2017. In October, Hlongwa resigned as the party's chief whip in the Gauteng legislature shortly before the Gauteng ANC announced its decision that Hlongwa and Mahlangu would not serve in public office but remain on the PEC. Hlongwa has been embroiled in allegations of corruption, stemming from his tenure as health MEC. "It is unfortunate that the letter has been leaked before the PEC could formally resolve, but all other structures of the movement have come to the same conclusion that the integrity of the ANC has to be saved," said Khawe, referring to a letter which was made public before a formal announcement. News24 has seen this letter, as well as one from ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte, in which she states the national working committee supports the recommendation for Hlongwa and Mahlangu to step down from the PEC. However, she adds that the NWC does not support the recommendation for the pair's ANC membership to be revoked. READ: Gauteng ANC expresses concern over 21 missing Life Esidimeni patients The PEC previously maintained it was not the role of the integrity commission to pronounce on membership and sought to consult on that finding. "From the onset, we did say to the people of Gauteng we have to look at this matter, subject it to integrity, and act accordingly," said Khawe. He said it would have been a "missed opportunity" for the ANC not to clarify the party's own rules and position on issues of membership. "They were not subjected to a disciplinary hearing. Sanctioning of membership has nothing to do with the integrity of the party," said the provincial secretary. "Here we asked for revolutionary conscience and morality," he added. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. CBS internal report finds Moonves obstructed probe - NY Times Former CBS chief executive, Leslie Moonves, destroyed evidence and misled internal investigation of his alleged sexual misconduct, according to the New York Times. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. MCA's Report On Vakrangee's Finances MCA ordered probe of books last September, probe is focused on audit reports, resignation of auditors, several transactions. Boris Johnson discusses Damian Green and Russia relations Boris Johnson discusses the resignation of Damian Green and the current state of UK relations with Russia. Joint company secretary of Ramelius Resources resigns 04 Dec 2018 - The joint company secretary of Ramelius Resources (ASX:RMS) Dom Francese has resigned. GR Engineering Services director resigns 07 Nov 2018 - GR Engineering Services (ASX:GNG) announced that Terrence Strapp, the Director of the Company, has resigned. Dominic Raab says he will not resign Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab says he is "absolutely not" resigning. WATCH: Ramaphosa makes Nene announcement President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed Tito Mboweni to the post of finance minister after accepting Nhlanhla Nene's resignation. Watch the full announcement here. WATCH: Democratic Alliance councillor Brett Herron resigns DA City of Cape Town MMC for Transport and Housing Brett Herron has resigned with immediate effect. Herron said that the DA is ignoring its manifesto to provide affordable housing and integration. Crouch: “No regrets” about resignation Tracey Crouch says she has “no regrets” over resigning as Sports Minister Bank of Queensland CEO and MD Jon Sutton resigns 05 Dec 2018 - Bank of Queensland (ASX:BOQ ) CEO and MD, Jon Sutton has resigned to focus on his long-term health following a heart operation earlier this year. Urjit Patel Resigns As RBI Governor Citing Personal Reasons Not surprised by Urjit Patel's resignation from RBI , RBI's credibility was severely damaged post demonetisation, says P Chidambaram, former Finance Minister. Urjit Patel Resigns As RBI Governor Citing Personal Reasons Not surprised by Urjit Patel's resignation from RBI , RBI's credibility was severely damaged post demonetisation, says P Chidambaram, former Finance Minister. Mugabe 'wasn't offered anything' to resign A resignation mediator says he can't confirm reports that Zimbabwe's ex-leader was given $10m (GBP7.5m). Jo Johnson resigns as transport minister over Brexit Jo Johnson, brother of Boris Johnson, has resigned as transport minister over Theresa May's Brexit plan. Urjit Patel Resigns As RBI Governor Citing Personal Reasons Not surprised by Urjit Patel's resignation from RBI , RBI's credibility was severely damaged post demonetisation, says P Chidambaram, former Finance Minister. Boris Johnson resigns as Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has resigned as Foreign Secretary, Downing Street said. It confirmed the Prime Minister accepted the resignation of Mr Johnson, and his replacement will be announced shortly. Company secretary Rural Funds Management resigns 31 Aug 2018 - Rural Funds Management (ASX:RRF) has announced Angela Lemmon has resigned from her role as company secretary. Jeff Sessions resigns as US attorney general 'at Donald Trump's request' US attorney general Jeff Sessions has resigned as the country's chief law enforcement officer. Mr Sessions announced his resignation in a letter to President Donald Trump and said it came at "your request". Dominic Raab resigns: Cabinet departures since 2017 general election With Dominic Raab resigning as Brexit Secretary, we take a look at who else has left Theresa May's Cabinet since its formation after the 2017 general election. Jeremy Corbyn calls for Amber Rudd's resignation Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn calls for Home Secretary Amber Rudd to take responsibility and resign over the Windrush scandal. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. Ford on Hydro One CEO retiring, board resigning: 'They're done' Ontario Premier Doug Ford says the immediate retirement of Hydro One's CEO and the resignation of its board shows the province is turning a "new corner." The moves come under a deal between the utility and the new Tory government.. . BHP sees two company secretaries resign 13 Sep 2018 - BHP Billiton (ASX:BHP) has lost two of its company secretaries effective from today. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery Amber Rudd resigns as Home Secretary Amber Rudd has resigned as Home Secretary amid claims she misled Parliament over targets for removing illegal migrants. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. Frank Field says he will employ "the best legal minds" to dispute Labour membership rules Frank Field has said he will employ "the best legal minds" to dispute Labour rules which say he cannot return to the party after resigning the whip. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.