Canny Maphanga Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga (PHOTO: Boipelo Mere) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories In a step towards the decolonisation of education in South Africa, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has reappointed a history ministerial task team to review the curriculum and make it more Afrocentric and relevant to South African pupils. "This is to ensure that the new history curriculum is representative and covers multiple perspectives, rather than one main dominant and distorted narrative," Department of Basic Education spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said in a statement on Tuesday. This comes after a history ministerial task team report released in December 2017 recommended a complete overhaul of the curriculum and assessment statement from Grade 4 to Grade 12. The task team, which will again be led by Professor Sifiso Ndlovu, has been given a mandate by the minister to "set the direction of history education for the country going forward". 'Moving forward together' Earlier this year, IOL reported that Ndlovu and his task team had recommended that history be made compulsory for Grades 10 to 12 from 2023. The terms of reference for the task team will be to:  • Develop a new history curriculum from Grade 4 to 12; • Conduct consultation and obtain inputs for the history curriculum from the provincial education sector; • Receive inputs and comments for consideration regarding the history curriculum; • Screen textbooks to ensure they are aligned with the new curriculum; and • Propose history teacher development programmes. "I have absolute faith in the team of experts that are going to be forging the way forward in terms of how we teach our young people about the past. "I believe that a comprehensive, well-rounded and accurate teaching of history will help our learners understand themselves better and assist the country in moving forward together," Motshekga said.  South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Dresden teacher wary of far-right AfD online platform A Dresden teacher recalls what life was like under communism. That's why the far-right AfD party's new online platform reminds her of the days when students could denounce teachers. Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. Zoe Kravitz felt 'like a freak' at school Zoe Kravitz "felt like a freak" at school because of the colour of her skin, as she went to a private school with predominantly white students. Alec Baldwin teaches 'Trump School' Comedian Alec Baldwin headlined a state Democratic party banquet teaching school lessons about Donald Trump. Ed Sheeran slams music funding cuts Ed Sheeran has slammed cuts to music education and revealed he was "benefited hugely" from the music education provided at his state school. Silicon Valley - Can Games Create an Education Fit for the Future? Imagine a school where playing video games is encouraged during classes and may even replace exams. A new educational programme uses SimCity to test children on vital problem-solving skills. Building Africa's Technology Ecosystem Building Africa's Technology Ecosystem Movie Report: Red Sparrow In the mystery thriller 'Red Sparrow', we follow Jennifer Lawrence as a Russian ballerina who gets recruited into 'Sparrow School'. This isn't your typical 'nose in the books' education though. Instead, the girls learn to use their bodies as weapons. The Top 5 Best Art & Cultural Museums in Africa Africa has no shortage of heritage, history and culture. And where better soak in all this knowledge than of of Africa's many incredible art and cultural museums? Charged and Disbarred - Part 4 James J. Hennessey Jr. is a disbarred lawyer from Albany who viciously and repeatedly attacked his African American neighbors Is this the most patriotic Canadian? High school teacher Dave Suchanek is so patriotic about Canada, he's created an alter ego: Flagman. Online learning at your own pace in Brazil In Brazil, schooling is compulsory for children between the ages of 7 and 14, but there is little state monitoring. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Blockchain's Potential in Africa with Olugbenga Agboola (Flutterwave), Omolara Awoyemi (SureGroup) a As crypto fever gripped many leading economies in 2018, Africa was shaping its own blockchain narrative—one more grounded in utility than speculation. Over the last year, the continent saw several ICOs and token launches. And use cases for blockch... John Boyega teaches kids Jedi training John Boyega has been teaching children how to train like a Jedi alongside Olympian Jade Jones, as part of a new scheme by Change4Life. Bettr at the Startup Battlefield Finals | Battlefield Africa 2018 Bettr is a virtual banking experience powered by your smartphone and your data. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. World Bank cuts Sub-Saharan Africa growth forecast The World Bank has dropped its 2018 economic growth forecast for Sub-Saharan Africa, partly blaming sluggish growth in some of the region's bigger economies. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Ethiopia accepts UN peace deal with Eritrea In what is Africa's longest war, Ethiopia is now seeking peace with Eritrea after PM Abiy Ahmed extended an olive branch to the neighbouring country. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. South Korea - the price of success South Korea's education system is notorious for the pressure it places on school students. Often they have little time for hobbies or friends. One start-up wants to make learning more fun. German minister suggests voluntary colonialism for Africa The African Union has rejected a proposal by a German minister suggesting foreign powers acquire land in Africa to stop migration. #voluntary #colonialism #Africa French President meets South African President at G20 summit French President Emannuel Macron meets South African President Cyril Ramaphosa during G20 summit in Buenos Aires. Meet the teacher who wears school uniform Alex Maina Kariuki is a school principal with a difference. He insists on wearing the same school uniform as his students. Art on the road The Molue Mobile Museum of Contemporary Art is an art space on wheels. The decommissioned school bus journeyed through West African countries, arriving in Dakar for the launch of the DAK'ART festival. Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". WATCH: Andile Mngxitama provides 'context' to "kill white people" statement Black First Land First (BLF) held a press conference on Tuesday to address concerns raised over a statement made by party leader, Andile Mngxitama. WATCH. Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. White backlash to black empowerment in US history The US has a long history of keeping black people down. Here's a chronological history that lists just some of the many cases of white backlash to black empowerment.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.