Jenna Etheridge Cape Town Magistrate’s Court. (James de Villiers, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African branch chief of the United States Centres for Disease Control and Prevention is not the only accused in a hefty fraud and corruption case involving more than R25m, it emerged this week. Alfred Bere, 36, dressed in a smart suit, made his second appearance in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday after being arrested in August. He was tasked with the role of overseeing donated funds and allegedly misused the funds for personal gain. The court heard that another accused would stand alongside Bere at his next appearance on January 24. Prosecutor advocate Lucinda Mcani, SC, said it was a "complex matter" spanning several companies. The investigation had so far identified over 100 bank accounts linked to the charges. R100 000 bail In September, Hawks spokesperson Captain Philani Nkwalase said funds were donated from the US and were meant to be redistributed to deserving non-profit organisations to fight the spread of diseases by providing healthcare services.He said it was alleged that the funds were injected to one deserving NPO, which was later coerced to take up another separate NPO as a subsidiary."The funds from the subsidiary [were] allegedly used for personal gain and further transferred to [the accused's] personal account. Bere is out on R100 000 bail. Read: Fraud-accused Centre for Disease Control boss released on R100K bail Mcani told Magistrate Greg Jacobs that she wanted him to note Bere had not informed the investigating officer that he was no longer living at the address he provided in Lynnwood, Pretoria. "The investigating officer only found out from the attorney when contacting him for something else." Bere was warned to abide by his bail conditions. WATCH: Worker takes Eskom labour brokers to court Witness Chauke is not afraid to speak truth to power. He says it was for this reason that his contract was terminated. He was the chairman of his group of (NUMSA) members at Eskom before his contract was terminated. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: Grandma Louw in altercation outside court Arlene Louw, the grandmother of the kidnapped and murdered nine-year-old Miguel, confronts several people accused of posting lies on Facebook outside the Durban Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. The court dismissed the case before we even got here - Zwelihle protesters A charge of crimen injuria was withdrawn against Hermanus land activist Gcobani Ndzongana on Friday, but he will have to remain in custody for his trial in another matter. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.