Mxolisi Mngadi SA Police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The decomposed bodies of two men, believed to be missing security guards, have been found in the Ematimatolo area in Greytown, KwaZulu-Natal police said on Saturday. Police said they are investigating if the deceased are the same men who were recently reported missing at the Mariannhill and Tongaat police stations. Their bodies were found in the veld on Friday afternoon and it is unclear how they died. "A post mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death," said Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane in a statement. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. A vehicle which they were travelling in was found abandoned in the Dalton area on December 24. Zwane said the two missing security guards were part of a group of four men who left their workplace in Tongaat to travel to Greytown on December 23. He said one of the men was driving his girlfriend's vehicle during the trip. Ematimatolo police have opened two cases of murder for further investigation, Zwane added. WATCH: Dead sailor found on yacht washed ashore in KZN A dead sailor, found aboard a yacht that washed ashore at a beach in Southbroom on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast on Saturday, has been identified, provincial police have confirmed. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: 'There's no outbreak of salmonella in KZN' – health department tries to quell fears There have been a number of laboratory-confirmed cases of salmonella in Durban but there is no "outbreak" of infections in the province, KwaZulu-Natal health authorities said on Monday. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.