Jenni Evans WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. Judge Babalwa Pearl Mantame said on Tuesday: "In the circumstances, a long period of imprisonment will afford him time to reflect on his actions." The public gallery was filled with people wearing T-shirts with Courtney's picture and the words: "Forever in our hearts". As soon as the sentence was handed down, the public gallery cheered and applauded. He was whisked away quickly. Saunders was found guilty on November 7 of Courtney's rape and murder. He gave her ant poison to make her sick, then choked her, and used a towel to cover her mouth, the court found. He admitted to murdering her, attributing it to "ill feelings" towards her mother. He denied rape, saying he touched her private parts only after she died. She disappeared from the home he lodged at with her mother Juanita, and after a prolonged search her body was found dumped in Epping Industria in Cape Town. This is a developing story.  WATCH: Chaos ensues during police operation in Parow A video of a police operation escalating into violence in Parow, Cape Town on Saturday has gone viral on social media. WATCH: 'Ho, ho, whoooa!' - NSRI to the rescue as Santa slips and stumbles off boat A jolly Santa Claus managed to do what he does best at a beach in Cape Town this weekend, putting smiles on many children's faces in a rather unexpected fashion. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: Worker takes Eskom labour brokers to court Witness Chauke is not afraid to speak truth to power. He says it was for this reason that his contract was terminated. He was the chairman of his group of (NUMSA) members at Eskom before his contract was terminated.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.