Russel Molefe, Correspondent Police Minister Bheki Cele. (Adrian de Kock, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police Minister Bheki Cele visited Limpopo, where plenty of criminal activities and traffic violations have been uncovered since the start of the festive season. Cele joined the police and traffic officers on the N1 outside Polokwane, where he stopped a minibus taxi en route to Johannesburg. He found that none of the passengers in the vehicle had authentic documentation to be in the country. "Everyone in the kombi was a foreign national and [no] papers whatsoever. As South African authorities, we need to act. WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. "Among them were very small babies. We are arresting the mothers. It is an unfortunate situation, but South Africa is a sovereign state and we have our own integrity. We must respect these things," Cele said. On Wednesday, the Limpopo Public Transport Unit stopped a 22-seater minibus on the N1 outside Polokwane. Upon inspection, they found 44 passengers and seven children crammed into the minibus. The minibus was travelling from Johannesburg and was headed for Zimbabwe. Read more here: Double trouble: Taxi driver arrested for squeezing 44 people into 22-seater vehicle Provincial Department of Transport spokesperson, Matome Moremi-Taueatsoala, said: "We called the cross-border officials to come and authenticate the papers, but the driver did not have the permit to drive this kind of vehicle." Another minibus with the capacity to carry 15 passengers was impounded when it was found that there were 24 people on board in Mokopane on Tuesday. The minibus was also travelling from Johannesburg to Zimbabwe. A total of 17 minibus taxis have been impounded since the beginning of this week for various infringements. In addition, several people were arrested for drinking and driving, speeding and reckless driving, among others. Limpopo Transport MEC Makoma Makhurupetje said: "We want to thank our traffic officers for a good job. Well done by effecting these arrests. "By effecting these arrests, we are setting an example to other motorists that we [will] not tolerate reckless driving as Limpopo remains a zero-tolerant zone." On Wednesday, 117 people were arrested for various crimes and several stolen goods were seized. The goods included LED TVs, cellphones and firearms. Meet The Face Of Amarula In The Limpopo Bush You don't have to go to fancy golf resorts or city boutique hotels for a luxury long weekend tryst - and at the Amarula Lapa in Limpopo you can even taste the wild of Africa and feel like bush royalty. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Limpopo matriculant comes out tops despite textbook, computer shortage Dimpho Phalane, a matriculant at Mampotjane Secondary School in Limpopo, could barely contain her excitement when she realised she was one of the country's top achievers. When your day in Sabi starts with a leopard kill inside the camp... Staff in Idube Game Reserve who spend their entire time in the bush could not believe this early-morning kill which took place right on the lawn of the lodge. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.