Ntwaagae Seleka @Abramjee via Twitter Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Vodacom and EFF leadership say the matter has now been resolved after the two parties met to discuss the keynote address at the 2018 Vodacom awards by Corruption Watch chairperson, Mavuso Msimang. On Sunday a group of protesters wearing EFF T-shirts vandalised a Vodacom store in the Mall of the North in Polokwane, Limpopo. There were also reports of an incident in Makhado, as well as reports of an incident at Greenstone mall on Monday. The protests followed a lecture by Msimang at the Vodacom event which included an image depicting EFF leaders Julius Malema and Floyd Shivambu as "abusers of freedom". "In the meeting, the parties discussed the matter in detail and have resolved the issue. Vodacom acknowledged that it is politically neutral and it doesn't influence party political positions in any way. Vodacom and EFF appreciate that the matter could have been handled differently to avoid the misunderstanding that occurred," the EFF and Vodacom said in a joint statement. The parties said they encourage the right of freedom of speech and the free circulation of ideas. The EFF and Vodacom also committed to engage on policy issues of mutual interest and considered the matter now closed. SAHRC responds Meanwhile, the South African Human Rights Commission says it supports the police's criminal investigation against people purported to be members of the EFF who allegedly stormed and damaged the Vodacom outlet in Polokwane. “A constitutional democracy such as ours should not tolerate violence and/or looting and vandalism as a response to utterances that are not acceptable to one group or another in our society. There are appropriate legal and constitutional mechanisms which can be used in order to express such dislikes," SAHRC spokesperson Gail Smith said. READ: Stay or go? DA in Limpopo in quandary over coalition partners Smith added that the commission is of the view that political parties as well as the population at large, should ensure that we all use the legal and constitutional mechanisms at our disposal in addressing grievances. Fighters don’t be surprised when @Vodacom gathers journalists to strategies on how to deal with EFF. It just means our fight is right where it belongs, in the belly of the beast: #WhiteMonopolyCapitalismWe would not be doing well if they were not all uniting against us #Asijiki pic.twitter.com/VHUgLgGse5   Eff supporters have vandalized a Vodacom store at the Mall of the North in Polokwane. They are protesting against an image of Julias Malema and Floyd Shivambu captioned "abusers of democracy", shown at the Vodacom Journalist of the Year Awards #eff #Vodacom #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/r43Ngz8omA   READ: Vodacom attack: DA goes after 'EFF hooligans who vandalised stores', EFF unfazed by DA threat Charges laid On Monday, DA premier candidate in Limpopo Jacques Smalle laid charges of malicious damage to property and accessory to crime at the Polokwane police station following the incident at the Mall of the North. “The DA condemned the incident and urged law enforcement units to investigate the matter and arrest members of the EFF. This is clearly a sign of things to come for the EFF. If they don’t like something, as they have shown with their continued attack on the press, they will use violence and destruction at all costs," said Smalle. However, EFF provincial chairperson Jossey Buthane has rubbished Smalle's claims that EFF was responsible for the attack and said the party was unfazed by criminal charges. "In all our spheres, from branches to national, [we] have never issued statements that said Vodacom must be attacked ... even though there was an attack by Vodacom to our national leadership,” said Buthane.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  