Jan Gerber Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu (Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Africa remains committed to normalising diplomatic relations with Rwanda, but insulting Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu isn't helping the cause as it only serves as a distraction. This was the message from Sisulu's spokesperson, Ndivhuwo Mabaya, as relations between South Africa and Rwanda soured after insults were aimed at Sisulu, which included being called a "prostitute" on what is believed to be a state-controlled website. South Africa's diplomatic relationship with Rwanda broke down in 1994 when South Africa expelled three Rwandan diplomats after a failed attempt on the life of Kayumba Nyamwasa. The Rwandan authorities responded by expelling six South African diplomats. Nyamwasa, a former general in the Rwandan army who fell out with Rwandan president Paul Kagame, sought sanctuary in South Africa since 2010. He also established an opposition party in exile. In March this year, President Cyril Ramaphosa visited Rwanda and together with Kagame, decided that relations should be normalised. According to Mabaya, Sisulu views this as high priority and has established a task team to help her with this. Last month, Sisulu said she met Nyamwasa and was pleasantly surprised to find him willing to negotiate with the Rwandan authorities. That remark set off the criticism and insults from Rwanda. 'An appetite for insulting us' The website Rushyashya referred to her as "Nyamwasa's prostitute" in a heading and there were tweets from Rwandan deputy foreign minister Olivier Nduhungirehe. "The deputy minister has an appetite for insulting us on social media," Mabaya said. The offending article has been removed but Nduhungirehe's tweet remains. Since then, Rwanda's envoy in South Africa was told the remarks were unacceptable and was asked to stop it. South Africa's High Commissioner in Rwanda, George Twala, had also been called to Pretoria for consultations on how best to deal with the normalisation process with Rwanda going forward. "This was just an incident," Mabaya said. He added that there hasn't been another incident after they spoke with their Rwandan counterparts. "We want to concentrate on the normalisation process." He added that they could work faster and with more focus when not insulted. "It is distracting us from the main task of normalising," he said. "We want to complete this as soon as possible." He also said good relations between South Africa and Rwanda were important because there were growing economic ties between the two countries, it could boost tourism and there was also a growing academic relationship.   Rwandans could lose refugee status An international agreement says many Rwandans will lose their refugee status at the end of the year. Rwandan entrepreneur turns her beetroot into red wine An unemployed Rwandan woman has started an international business selling homemade beetroot wine. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. German minister suggests voluntary colonialism for Africa The African Union has rejected a proposal by a German minister suggesting foreign powers acquire land in Africa to stop migration. #voluntary #colonialism #Africa WATCH: Report shows over six million SA children live below the poverty line Over six million children in South Africa still live below the food poverty line, according to the Child Gauge 2018 report released on Tuesday. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Egypt-France Birthday Love The French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian was received with a birthday cake during a state visit to Egypt. We look at what's behind all the birthday love. Egypt-France Birthday Love The French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian was received with a birthday cake during a state visit to Egypt. We look at what's behind all the birthday love Turkey and the US concerned for missing journalist Jamal Khashoggi The US and Turkey are concerned about the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi who went missing after entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Turkey. But it's not the first time a diplomatic mission has gone under fire. #Khashoggi #Saudi #Turkey Russian diplomat expulsions a 'targeted' measure, says Goodale Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says measures taken Monday against Russia were "targeted." The government announced the expulsion of four Russian diplomats as the U.S. and other allies took similar actions. Iran slams U.S. sanctions push Iran on Wednesday kept up a drumbeat of opposition to U.S. demands for sweeping change in its foreign policy and nuclear program, and Tehran's ally Damascus dismissed out of hand a U.S. call for a withdrawal of Iranian forces from Syria. Borrell: 'Europe is not a supermarket' We cannot choose which bits of Europe we like and which we do not, says Spain's foreign minister. Rwanda's "Bauhaus of Africa" How do you plan a city that has to contend with a steady river of newcomers? At the African Design Centre, Christian Benimana teaches young designers and urban planners to come up with sustainable solutions for both housing and infrastructure. Amputee soldier has obstacle course wedding A heroic former soldier who lost his right leg on an Army mission in Rwanda celebrated his wedding by scaling an inflatable, mud-covered obstacle course.
Mandatory on-screen courtesies: Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. North Korea slams U.S. sanctions pressure North Korea says Washington can't expect progress on denuclearization if it keeps aggressively pushing for international sanctions. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. Freeland praises NAFTA 'progress' as talks stop for weekend Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland stressed that while headway is being made in NAFTA talks in Washington, no deal would happen until "everything is decided." Negotiators left for the weekend with multiple issues unresolved. Turkish forces enter outskirts of Syria's Manbij Turkish forces have started patrolling on the outskirts of Syria's Manbij as part of a deal between Turkey and the US. Modi's yoga diplomacy Is Narendra Modi using 'yoga diplomacy' to stretch India's soft power? Canada ‘very encouraged’ by U.S.-Mexico NAFTA progress: Freeland Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland says the U.S. and Mexico are signalling “optimism” on resolving bilateral issues within the NAFTA framework. Freeland says Canada is looking forward to rejoining the trade negotiations. Chrystia Freeland says NAFTA talks have entered 'intensive stage' Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland says NAFTA talks in Washington this week have been "intense" and "constructive." Freeland says the new stage of negotiations is a positive step towards a deal. Freeland says she’s ‘fetishistic’ about her NAFTA filing system Chrystia Freeland says she has developed a special filing system for the complex NAFTA information she needs to familiarize herself with. The foreign affairs minister is in Washington for more trade negotiations. ‘Neighbours help each other’: Freeland marks 9/11 at NAFTA talks Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland remembered the Sept. 11 terror attacks ahead of Tuesday’s NAFTA talks in Washington. Freeland says she hopes the anniversary will lend perspective to the trade negotiations. Chrystia Freeland says Canada has a ‘talent for compromise’ Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland stressed again Tuesday that no deal is better than a bad deal when it comes to the ongoing NAFTA negotiations. Freeland is returning to Washington in an effort to bring Canada into a revised NAFTA. Realpolitik explained: Why can't we stop wars? The world said "never again" to genocide after the Holocaust. Yet today, multiple humanitarian crises have erupted in Syria, Yemen and Myanmar. Why doesn't the international community intervene? Ibrahim Kalin, a Turkish diplomat, explains this thr... Spy poisoning: Russia to expel same number of diplomats as the West Moscow will expel the same number of diplomats from the nations that have expelled Russian diplomats over the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy in Britain, Russia's foreign minister said. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Yemen peace talks are 'critical opportunity', says UN envoy Talks opening in Sweden between Yemen's government and rebels, who have been locked in a devastating war for nearly four years, are a "critical opportunity", says special envoy Martin Griffiths. Milestone Yemen peace talk kick off in Sweden Talks opening in Sweden between Yemen's government and rebels, who have been locked in a devastating war for nearly four years, are a "critical opportunity", says special envoy Martin Griffiths. Nigeria clash will be 'tough' - Baxter South Africa prepared in Johannesburg on Friday (16th November) for their AFCON 2019 qualifier against Group E leaders Nigeria. Kim and Kanye donate sneakers to Ugandan orphanage children U.S. celebrity couple Kanye West and Kim Kardashian visited an orphanage in the city of Wakiso in western Uganda on Tuesday. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. Security of Canadian diplomats at risk: Auditor general’s report An auditor general’s report has found Canada is not properly protecting diplomats and staff who face security threats abroad. Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland says the Liberals are investing $1.8 billion to improve security. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Iran in push to salvage nuclear deal after US withdrawal Iran's foreign minister Javad Zarif has started a diplomatic tour to try to salvage the nuclear deal without the US. So far he's visited China and Moscow as well as met foreign ministers of France, England and Germany in Brussels. Waste not: South Africa makes world's first human urine brick One day, when nature calls, your urine could be put to better use than to be flushed down the loo. Instead it could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. Silent Warriors The beautiful and isolated Solomon Islands were the scene for a bloody battle between the Japanese and the allied forces during 1942. Many lives were lost and the islands and surrounding seas are still covered in the debris of war. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.