Pelane Phakgadi National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole. (Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Africa's top cop wants all citizens to be safe this festive season and is appealing to everyone to be considerate, responsible and vigilant to ensure their personal safety and that of others. According to national police commissioner, General Khehla Sitole, the end-of-year holidays are traditionally for relaxation and festivities. However, he warned that it was also a time when complacency seemed to set in and criminals became opportunistic. "This is also a period when there is a greater tendency of abuse of alcohol and drugs, ultimately resulting in the abuse of women, children and other vulnerable groups, aggravated robberies, assaults and an increase in carnage on our roads," he said. He said the police remained committed to ensuring that people were safe and secure. WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. READ: Children of officers killed in line of duty feel the festive cheer Below are some tips the commissioner thinks South Africans should consider: • Be aware of your surroundings and any suspicious looking people/behaviour; • Report any suspicious behaviour/activity to the nearest police station; and • Don't drink and walk on public roads.    He said that the police would primarily be focused on aggravated robberies, crimes against women, children and people with disabilities, the proliferation of arms and ammunition, border security, liquor outlets and road safety enforcement. Sitole also raised the issue of prank calls to the police's crime line, saying that these increased during the holidays. "This places a huge burden on police resources which can be better utilised for legitimate cases," he said. READ MORE: Negligent drivers are being dealt with 'decisively' says JMPD The police commissioner urged those who were on the road to buckle up and said they should not drink or use other dependency producing substances before driving. "Be alert. Should you suspect that you are being followed, drive to the nearest police station," he added. Sitole cautioned citizens about jamming devices, saying motorists should check that their cars are locked before leaving a parking area. In addition, he warned: "Always use an ATM that is in a well-lit area and not secluded. Preferably use an ATM inside a shopping mall/complex or filling station and do not allow anyone to assist you [to withdraw] money."  WATCH: Langa residents loot hijacked, abandoned truck Residents in Langa took advantage of a hijacked truck in Cape Town on Wednesday after stealing goods from the abandoned vehicle. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. US authorities continue to have strong presence at the border US border police and other agents continue to mass and patrol the US-Mexico border, which has seen about 5,900 active-duty troops sent there in the name of national security, as thousands of migrants have arrived in the Mexican border town of Tiju... Van attack doesn't seem to be linked to national security: Goodale Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says the deadly van attack in north Toronto on Monday doesn't appear to be connected to national security. At least 10 people were killed in the incident and 15 others were injured. Goodale asked why Toronto van attack not dubbed terrorism Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says it's up to investigating agencies to characterize Monday's deadly van attack in Toronto, but he reiterated Tuesday that there is currently no "known national security connection.". Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. Contest terror strategy: Sajid Javid outlines six key steps Sajid Javid announces the new "Contest" strategy document at the Southbank Centre in London. 

MI5 intelligence will be shared with bodies outside the security community in a drive to stop terror suspects before attack plots can crystallise. Apple says no signs of hacking attack Apple told Congress that it had found no evidence that China hacked into its supply chain. Facebook confirms data sharing with Chinese firms Facebook says it has data sharing partnerships with at least four Chinese companies, including Huawei, which has come under scrutiny from U.S. intelligence on concerns of national security. Currency has moved from 63/$ To 73/$ IL&FS moved from AAA rating to D in the shortest possible time,10 year government securities have moved from 7.5% To 8.1%. Stina Ehrensvard of Yubico on security with multi-purpose chips Stina Ehrensvard of Yubico on security and trust with multi-purpose chips: "The bigger the system, the bigger the risk of attack." #TCDisrupt Paul Gascoigne denies sexual assault charge Former England footballer Paul Gascoigne has appeared in court to deny sexually assaulting a woman by kissing her on a train. Online campaign for security guard killed by US police officer An online fundraiser has raised over $130,000 for Jemel Roberson, the black security guard who was shot dead by a US police officer. Roberson held down a gunman and waited for police to arrive.

Police shot Roberson upon arrival at the scene. He l... Ralph Goodale outlines goals of new cybersecurity strategy The federal government has announced the establishment of a new Canadian Centre for Cyber Security. Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says the centre will provide expert support to governments, businesses and individuals. Alex Stamos on security breaches at Yahoo and Facebook Alex Stamos says being a CSO today is like being a accountant before the calculator was invented #TCDisrupt Kalepso at Startup Battlefield Finals | Disrupt Berlin 2018 Kalepso is a cybersecurity startup that offers users a previously unattainable combination of post-quantum security with full database processing. Kalepso | Disrupt Berlin 2018 Kalepso is a cybersecurity startup that offers users a previously unattainable combination of post-quantum security with full database processing. Trump: China and Russia challenge US 'We are engaged in a new era of global competition,' says the president in a national security speech. Everybody Spies or Nobody Does With fears increasing over snooping states and phone hacking, how do we balance privacy and security? Security technologist Bruce Schneier says we must face up to a stark choice. Police want public to act as "counter-terrorism citizens" Police want members of the public to act as "counter-terrorism citizens" to help them stop deadly attack plots.
Security chiefs say information from the community is crucial to confronting the unprecedented threat. Police share top tips for safely overtaking cyclists Hampshire and Thames Valley police forces have been working together to show motorists the safe way to overtake cyclists. Drastic new security measures in US schools Many schools are introducing new tactics to try to prevent shootings - but do they have any chance of keeping pupils safe? Rapper Cardi B arrives at court to answer assault charge Rapper Cardi B arrives at court to answer assault charge over strip club brawl. Can We Trust Autonomous Vehicles to Keep us Safe? with Eran Shir (Nexar), Danny Atsmon (Cognata), Hi Can We Trust Autonomous Vehicles to Keep us Safe? with Eran Shir (Nexar), Danny Atsmon (Cognata), Hilla Tavor (Mobileye). WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. Suspect in Strasbourg attack killed in gun battle with police -officials The suspected gunman, who killed three people at a Christmas market in Strasbourg on Tuesday, has been killed, two police sources said on Thursday. Chris Dignam has more. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 1 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.
Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Tear gas and arrests as Paris hit by new yellow vest protests Police fired tear gas and arrested hundreds of people in Paris as the French capital went on lockdown for the latest yellow vest protests against President Emmanuel Macron. #Yellowvest #Paris #Protests WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Police find on-the-run paedophile hiding behind false wall A paedophile on the run from police for five years was finally arrested after he was found hiding behind a false wall.

Brian Ward, 62, had evaded authorities since 2013 after he fled a trial for indecently assaulting a young girl. The final battles for Mosul Iraqi forces prepare for an assault on Mosul, which has been held by militants from the so-called Islamic State since 2014. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part2) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Arrests made as shop is looted in Paris protests Violent clashes continued on the Place de la Republique in Paris, where protesters tried to loot a sports shop and police made several arrests. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. Six boys arrested in St. Michael’s assault investigation Six teens have been arrested and charged after an alleged sexual assault at St. Michael’s private school in Toronto. Police say anyone in possession of the video of the alleged incident should delete it immediately. Malvinder accuses brother of assault War of words turns into a fist fight between the Fortis brothers Bodycam video of police clashing with protesters in Paris Paris police said 133 people have been injured and 412 have been arrested as protesters trashed the streets of the capital during France's worst urban riot in years.

Police body camera footage highlighted the violence of the anti-government prote... Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Gunman kills three at Strasbourg Christmas market A manhunt is underway in France after a gunman killed at least three people and injured a dozen others at a Christmas market in Strasbourg. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail?   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.