Pelane Phakgadi Lions are a threatened species. (Netwerk24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The National Assembly adopted the report of a colloquium on captive lion breeding for hunting and lion bone trade. This includes a resolution for a reduction in the lion bone quota trade from 1 500 to the 800, according to a statement issued by the parliamentary committee on environmental affairs on Friday. A high-level panel will also be appointed to conduct a policy review on the lion breeding and bone trade industries. Some of the resolutions come from the committee's two-day colloquium in August this year, which sought ways to bring an end to the "controversial practice" that is possibly threatening to harm the proud conservation image of the country. READ: Poachers target lions in Limpopo "This practice has indeed attracted a considerable degree of international outcry against it, from both the pro-sustainable use group, comprising mainly the hunting associations and the anti-sustainable use group, consisting of animal welfare non-governmental organisations (NGOs)", said committee chairperson Phillemon Mapulane. "The committee unanimously made certain pertinent observations and resolutions to restore our image as a pioneering conservation nation, with positive socio-economic spin offs for our people that far outweighs what the CLB (captive lion breeding) industry generates," he added. ALSO READ:The commodification of South Africa’s wildlife Mapulane said his committee appreciated the "strategic, bold and decisive leadership" of the former acting minister of environmental affairs Derek Hanekom and newly appointed Minister Nomvula Mokonyane on the matter. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. When your day in Sabi starts with a leopard kill inside the camp... Staff in Idube Game Reserve who spend their entire time in the bush could not believe this early-morning kill which took place right on the lawn of the lodge. Lioness kills father of her cubs at Indianapolis Zoo A lioness has killed the father of her three cubs in an attack not fully understood by zoo staff. Mongoose refuses to be lion cubs' chew toy While the young lions seem to be enjoying themselves, the mongoose is not having too much fun. Male lion ruins lionesses' hunt of a warthog This male lion was a little too eager for some warthog hamburgers after he bungled the hunt of two lionesses, who probably had a growl or two to say to him afterwards. Lion calls squad to show hyenas who's the boss of the bush This lion's pride definitely had her back when she was cornered by a group of hyenas trying to steal her kill. It was captured on video in Kruger National Park by 19-year-old student Amber Soames and shared by Latest Sightings. Kenya: Espionage in the service of animals Poaching is a global industry. Poachers often form networks much like militant groups. Faye Cuevas used to work for the US military, fighting militants. She's now using her expertise to protect Kenya's elephant population from poachers.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.