Chante Schatz WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. Regular motorists along Johannesburg's busy William Nicol Drive were astonished to see a "drive-thru bar" had popped up on the road on Wednesday morning. Touted as the hottest new spot in the city, "One on Nicol" promised to deliver drinks to drivers drive-thru style. On Wednesday morning it was revealed the stunt was a campaign set up by the Association for Alcohol Responsibility and Education (also known as aware.org) to discourage drinking and driving this festive season. Aware.org partnered with Arrive Alive and the Road Traffic Management Corporation to launch the campaign to get South Africans to think about their drinking habits and thought patterns when getting behind the wheel. "We have not really made a dent in addressing the issue of drinking and driving," said aware.org's CEO Ingrid Louw. "We can't expect to do the same thing as previously and expect different results. So we realised that we needed to be bold, we needed to be radical and we needed to get South Africans talking." 'Are you kidding me?' Louw and her team managed the campaign's social media account, responding to outraged responses after announcing the launch. On its Facebook page, many people commented that it was a bad idea. Patrick Swan wrote: "Looks to me like it's inviting drinking and driving. Hier kom kak." To this, One on Nicol replied: "What is the difference between drinking at a bar and drinking at a pop-up?" Gray Cescutti commented: "Yay more people drinking and driving...Just what we need..."  Police response Speaking at the campaign launch, Johannesburg Metro Police Department spokesperson Wayne Minnaar expressed his initial outrage after hearing about the drive-thru bar on Tuesday evening. "We immediately said we would have to implement an action plan," he said. Minnaar was prepared to deploy 200 officers around the bar in an effort to block it from being launched. "I was relieved once I was called by Ingrid letting me know that it was actually their event bringing awareness to drinking and driving." Minnaar added that officers have been deployed across the city to ensure roads are safe from motorists driving under the influence this holiday season. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 3 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 4 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues her testimony | Part 2 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. WATCH: Aerial view of Secunda taxi strike Scores of taxi drivers in Secunda, Mpumalanga caused a traffic jam on roads moving in and out of the city centre. WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' All I Want For Christmas Is You News24 though it apt, that some of South Africa's politicians bring you a little festive cheer. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. WATCH: Prodigious python causes stir in Kathu A prodigious python, filmed slithering up a tree, caused quite a stir in the small town of Kathu in the Northern Cape. VIDEO | Festive blitz: 11 Joburg nightclubs raided during late night police operation Eleven places of entertainment were raided in the Johannesburg inner city on Tuesday night as part of the Buya Mthetho campaign.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.