Mpho Raborife Johann Rupert. (Barry Lamprecht) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of South Africa's richest businessmen, Johann Rupert, was accused of being arrogant, racist and suffering from cognitive dissonance on Tuesday evening during an event hosted by PowerFM. The multi-billionaire was a guest on the Chairman's Conversation, an annual event hosted by the radio station's founder Given Mkhari. Rupert, who is chair of the Swiss-based luxury-goods company Richemont as well as of South African-based company Remgro, faced tough questions from the Johannesburg crowd following a two-hour one-on-one conversation with Mkhari in which he touched on various topics including corruption, land expropriation, investor confidence, building a sustainable business and the Afrikaner Broederbond. Speaking about the business his father Anton founded 70 years ago, Rembrandt - which was later split into Remgro and Richemont, he reminded Mkhari and the crowd that the business only started making profits 30 years later, emphasising the fact that there was no such thing as overnight success. He also touched on the fact that unlike in other countries, the SA Revenue Service (SARS) did not treat big business leaders like himself with the appreciation that they received from their counterparts overseas, which didn't sit well with him as a loyal South African. "For very many years our so-called family companies brought back more dividends than the rest of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange put together. These are facts. Tax "So what do you get? You stay loyal to the country, you create jobs, you pay tax, and you know I give my salary away. I thought the job is, if you're a good South African that's what you do. In the rest of the world, people like people like that. They say: 'Please come to our country to create jobs, please come to our country to pay proper salaries, please come to our country to pay tax, and then give donations.'"   He was asked whether any of the dividends from his business abroad made their way back into South Africa. "Do you know the difference?" he said pointing out that the Swiss ambassador was in the attendance. "In Switzerland I got a letter of 'Thank You' from the taxman… but here they harassed me for eight years. So unlike what your friend with the red beret thinks [seemingly referring to EFF leader Julius Malema]… who said five years ago that I am 'influential' in SARS, no, no - the opposite." When asked whether he thought the fact that his father had grown up during the great depression in South Africa had something to do with his drive and ultimate success in business, Rupert said yes. "That's the reason… In a sense, the Afrikaner was downtrodden. The poor white question… but they were driven. They studied like crazy, they saved like crazy. "They didn't go and buy BMWs and hang around at Taboo or The Sands [upmarket clubs] all the time." He then said the current narrative around former president Nelson Mandela being a sell-out was "totally disrespectful". "I don't see your generation going to jail for decades, no, you'll miss The Sands," he said to Mkhari. He suggested that the current generation of youths should be respectful to their elders and added that he hadn't seen any leadership among them yet. "Remember I met Steve Biko when he was in his 20s and he wouldn't have carried on in Taboo."  Oppressed nation Speaking of his Afrikaner heritage, Rupert said he was proud of it but said based on their history in the country, they too had been an oppressed nation and still felt "endangered" as a people to this day. However, he acknowledged the effects that racial divisions caused in society, saying he'd had similar conversations with Biko. "When I met the late Steve Biko, after many hours of discussions, we came to the conclusion that we will never have peace in this country if Afrikaner nationalism and black nationalism cannot come to a compromise. That was in [19]73/74; we're sitting in 2018, we'd better find that compromise." When asked his thoughts on land expropriation without compensation, Rupert said it was an emotive issue for both black and white South Africans, but said it was obvious that there needed to be redress. "In America they've got a thing called Eminent Domain where if it's in the absolute public good, land can be expropriated [but] it's how it's done, because the last 10 years has not really been good in terms of state interference, if you look at the fiasco we've had [politically]. "I don't think we'll ever have peace until there is a proper redistribution. I wouldn't say land, I would say property and that we grow the economy… It's not a question of doing it, it's how it's done… Let's not fall into the trap of Zimbabwe and Venezuela. Everything looks good on paper, but the game is played on grass." On whether he would be willing to reach out to President Cyril Ramaphosa and his administration to give some pointers from the side of business, Rupert said he had been labelled as "toxic" by "a little Venda in a red beret". "I'm toxic. You shangaans have made me toxic, well Vendas, sorry. There's a little Venda with a red beret. You guys have made me toxic." Good environment for investment He said the last time he had engaged with a government was under former president Thabo Mbeki's administration. He alluded to Ramaphosa possibly avoiding seeming as if he were "captured" by business. "President Mbeki wasn't scared… you need a proper dialogue, but for that, both parties need to trust the other side's bona fides." He said Mbeki had created a good environment for investment. "We let [former] president Mbeki down because he created a perfect scenario for business to invest, but I think we couldn't believe our luck and we should have invested more, in the private sector."  International investors were now looking to see if they would be investing locally, in their own markets, he said. "But you know we need a little bit of love from the government and not being told: 'You white monopoly capitalist' etc." On job creation, Rupert said there was a misconception that it was big business' role to create jobs, but that the majority job creators were actually found in the small and medium enterprises sector globally. Rupert again attacked SARS, calling them "thugs", for standing in the way of businesses. "Do you know what those thugs at SARS did when they withheld the VAT? Do you have any idea what they did to small businesses when R20bn odd got withheld? They should all go to jail for just that. Cut the red tape, help the small medium business people - they create jobs worldwide." Speaking on corruption, Rupert said if he were allowed to run government he would take South Africa into his confidence and tell them exactly what was going on. "I have a problem that all of our politicians have, for the last 10 years treated voters like fools. Voters are not fools, voters are highly intelligent. There are people all over the country that are looking for leadership, be honest with them and be transparent with them." Afrikaner Broederbond Rupert also denied being part of any white monopoly capital or the so-called "Stellenbosch Mafia", and said he was not aware of either. He did however acknowledge that his father had in the past been a member of the Afrikaner Broederbond, but later left the grouping. He himself had never been part of any secret organisation, he said. On transformation, Mkhari explained that young black business people often struggled to gain access and were looking for a way in, through the likes of Rupert and other influential business leaders. Rupert suggested that Mkhari gather young professionals together into the same room and promised to bring his business friends. "I don't have a problem as long as people understand that there are no overnight successes." He then said Mkhari should not bring any tenderpreneurs. "No tenderpreneurs - a lot of Shangaans are very good at this. Firstly it was the people from the Eastern Cape that must eat, then the people from KZN that must eat and now it's the Shangaans [and] Vendas." His comments have received major backlash on social media. But Rupert maintains he was not trying to offend anyone and was just stating facts. In response to a question by journalist and PowerFM presenter Iman Rapetti on being labelled as racist by some watching the interview and posting their views on Twitter, he said: "I've been accused of a lot of things… In the old days, when you were against apartheid you were called a communist, nowadays if you're against corruption…. How do you defend being called a racist? Luckily I've never been called that in public or in private and my friends know that it doesn't exist and I actually take exception to that." BMF attacks Referring to the Taboo reference, Rupert said: "I didn't say black people, I said people. Do you think white kids don't do the same? Do you think a whole generation of children don't do the same? What I'm trying to say is a previous generation didn't do it… There is globally, a sense of 'consume now'. That's what I said to him and if people want to take it personally, they should really question as to what the parents gave up and what the grandparents gave up… "I'm sorry if it came across as racist; it's not racist, it is a philosophy that people must understand that you can't consume now and pay for it tomorrow." In response to a black farmer who had described him as arrogant and a member of the Black Management Forum who has said black people should deduce from the interview that as young black professionals they were now "on their own", Rupert said he had endured attacks from the BMF for years without responding to them. "I've said the big problem in this country… instead of people debating facts, they get personal, they attack individuals and attack their children and that's a Donald Trump-type style. I think all of us are adult enough to debate issues, but why get personal all the time. We carry on like this, the other side loses interest very quickly. "Our country's got very serious problems, best illustrated by the clear division tonight. There's clear hatred, there is clear animosity and insults; quite frankly, if that's the attitude I can tell you that we're going to have serious problems in this country… Quite frankly, I'm very happy not to get involved; I'm quite happy to spend time with friends and children and not to help… there are many other countries where you don't get insulted like this." One audience member said Rupert's white privilege had helped enable his current level of wealth and suggested that he help use some of it to help boost young black entrepreneurs in Mamelodi, he said: "I've tried my best. My people, who work with me are happy. They've all got homes, I look after their kids and give them bursaries, and I'm not Father Christmas that can look after the whole country. "I've been luckier than I thought I would, I made more money than I thought I would and that I often think I deserve, and my mother taught me to share, and I really give away a lot more money than I spend on our family. Quite frankly, I don't need lessons in sharing, because I know what I do and luckily the people close to me know what I do." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. Kyle Abbott excited to make SA return at Durban Heat Former Proteas bowler Kyle Abbott says he is excited to be back playing cricket in South Africa for the Durban Heat in the Mzansi Super League. South Africa's biggest opportunity to grow tourism remains visa reform As the Reserve Bank hikes rates, the rand, while steady, remains hungover from a hellish year of inflation and the aggressive vat increase has yet to take its toll on consumers - yet travel and tourism remains an underutilised opportunity. Rolene Strauss on her first album: 'I'm sharing a lot of personal things' Former Miss World Rolene Strauss talks to Channel24 about her brand-new spoken word album, Secrets to My Growth. French President meets South African President at G20 summit French President Emannuel Macron meets South African President Cyril Ramaphosa during G20 summit in Buenos Aires. What you should know about cruising with MSC Musica in South Africa Gabi Zietsman from Traveller24 visited the MSC Musica in Durban's port for the launch of the summer cruise season in South Africa, and picked up a few tips for first-time passengers. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot. Kruger Gold As Buck Runs Into Lions We often see lions working hard for its next meal, but in a video shared by Latest Sightings, getting dinner couldn't be easier for a pride of lions that had a buck run right into them. CSA CEO on SABC's readiness to broadcast MSL Cricket South Africa CEO Thabang Moroe is eager to see how the national broadcaster, the SABC, will provide their coverage of the inaugural Mzansi Super League. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Black Friday chaos captured on camera in South Africa Shoppers in Potchefstroom sprint into Game as the store opens at midnight as Black Friday chaos hits South Africa. Some bargain hunters chose the risky route of climbing over trollies. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels for summit EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels to review relations and discuss ways of intensifying and broadening their cooperation, at the 7th summit between the two sides, which takes place 100 years after Nelson Mandela's birth. The summit will... Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Waste not: South Africa makes world's first human urine brick One day, when nature calls, your urine could be put to better use than to be flushed down the loo. Instead it could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  