Pelane Phakgadi SAPS (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 55-year-old man was found with stab wounds to his body and his private parts cut off in an open field in Magatle, outside Lebowakgomo, in the early hours of Sunday morning. The victim was found by a passerby – naked, bleeding and in agonising pain – and he was taken to a nearby hospital. Police said that their preliminary investigations had led them to a 27-year-old suspect's house at Bolahlakgomo village in the surrounding area, where the alleged severed parts were found placed in a washing basket. "Forensic investigations will still be conducted to determine if the private parts belong to the victim," said police spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe. History of serious crimes "The suspect was not found at home, but a manhunt was immediately launched," added Ngoepe. The suspect was arrested at a wedding ceremony in the village later that day. The alleged perpetrator was known for committing serious crimes, and has previously been convicted for murder and malicious damage to property. "He will appear in the Thabamoopo Magistrate's Court on Monday, facing a charge of attempted murder," Ngoepe said. The motive for the attack was not known, Ngoepe added.  NZ PM: 'Overwhelming sense of hurt' over backpacker's murder NZ PM: 'Overwhelming sense of hurt' over backpacker's murder Charged and Disbarred - Part 3 Bradley Slowgrove, former barrister for an accused Serbian war criminal, has been struck off for attempting to intimidate a magistrate Brexit: What to expect this week With Tory MPs and even allegedly ministers plotting Theresa May's downfall and the abandonment of her withdrawal agreement, we take a look at the upcoming week and why it could define the PM's tenure in office. Israeli forces kill Palestinian murder suspect: officials Israeli forces killed a Palestinian suspected of murdering two Israelis in the occupied West Bank, following a two-month manhunt. David Duckenfield to face 95 manslaughter charges over Hillsborough fans' deaths Hillsborough match commander David Duckenfield is to face trial for the alleged manslaughter by gross negligence of 95 Liverpool supporters after a judge lifted a stay on his prosecution. ‘Difficult’ situation with China after Canadian’s arrest: Scheer Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer says there is a troubling “global dynamic” emerging after a Canadian’s detention in China in the wake of the Vancouver arrest of a Chinese executive in response to a U.S. extradition request. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. LGBT hate crime More homophobic and transphobic hate crimes are going unsolved, according to research by BBC Three. Faith healer accused of sexual abuse turns himself in A Brazilian faith healer who was accused of sexual abuse by more than 300 women has turned himself in a day after being officially ruled a fugitive. Charged and Disbarred - Part 7 Marc Stuart Dreier, is a former American lawyer who was sentenced to 20 years in federal prison ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa appoints advocate Shamila Batohi as new NPA boss President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced advocate Shamila Batohi as the new head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Lawson Naidoo, joins News24 opinions editor Alet Janse van Rensburg and News24 editor-in-chief in studio for analysis. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Salvadoran woman charged with murder over premature death freed Imelda Cortez, a 20-year-old Salvadoran rape victim originally charged with murder after giving birth prematurely in a toilet, leaves court after being acquitted. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. Tear gas and arrests as Paris hit by new yellow vest protests Police fired tear gas and arrested hundreds of people in Paris as the French capital went on lockdown for the latest yellow vest protests against President Emmanuel Macron. #Yellowvest #Paris #Protests China's Didi slammed after driver murders woman China says its largest ride-hailing firm Didi Chuxing had “unshirkable responsibility” for a carpool passenger being raped and killed by a driver. Belgian Samaritans under Arrest Belgian citizens who provide shelter or even assistance to unregistered migrants face the prospect of arrest and charges for organized immigration crimes. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. Police charge man in Canada shooting Police charged 48-year-old Matthew Vincent Raymond with four counts of first degree murder in the deaths of four people, including two police officers, and identified the civilians killed in a shooting on Friday in the eastern Canadian city of Fre... Dellen Millard given third life sentence for father’s murder Twice-convicted murderer Dellen Millard was handed a third life sentence on Tuesday for the murder of his father, Wayne Millard. Crown attorney Jill Cameron says the public should be relieved that Millard “will not see the light of day.” WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Nissan seeks to block former chairman Ghosn from his apartment Nissan is seeking to block its former chairman Carlos Ghosn, arrested and removed from his role for alleged financial misconduct, from his apartment in Rio de Janeiro. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part2) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. WATCH: Marinda Steyn takes the stand in Krugersdorp murder trial WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State finished its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Ousted Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn re-arrested in Japan Ousted former Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn is re-arrested in Tokyo on fresh allegations that he shifted more than $16 million of personal investment losses onto Nissan. People line up outside court ahead of Huawei bail decision People lining up outside court ahead of a bail decision for Meng Wanzhou, a top executive of Chinese telecom giant Huawei who is seeking release from detention on health grounds, as Beijing calculates its protests over her arrest on a US warrant. ... Japan court extends Ghosn detention A Japanese court on Sunday extended for 10 days the detention of ousted Nissan Motor Co chairman Carlos Ghosn, who is facing new allegations of making the car maker shoulder $16.6 million in personal investment losses. Saskia O'Donoghue reports Morocco arrests Swiss national in tourist murders Morocco has arrested a Swiss national in connection with the killing of two Scandinavian women, according to the counter-terrorism agency. Police claim clerical sex abuse testimony in Loughlinisland document seizure Confidential testimony from alleged sex abuse victims of a notorious priest are among sensitive files seized by detectives investigating two film makers. Trevor Birney and Barry McCaffrey were arrested earlier this year over the alleged theft of a... WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. China demands release of detained Huawei executive The Chinese foreign ministry demands the US revoke the arrest warrant for a detained Huawei top executive. Meng Wanzhou was arrested in Vancouver on a US request. Washington wants the chief financial officer extradited for allegedly violating US s... Meet The Face Of Amarula In The Limpopo Bush You don't have to go to fancy golf resorts or city boutique hotels for a luxury long weekend tryst - and at the Amarula Lapa in Limpopo you can even taste the wild of Africa and feel like bush royalty. Charged and Disbarred - Part 13 Ken Anderson was appointed to the court in 2002 by Governor Rick Perry. He resigned from his position on September 23, 2013 after he was arrested for withholding exculpatory evidence Ghosn could win bail as court quashes bid to extend detention Carlos Ghosn could soon be freed on bail after a Japanese court threw out a bid by prosecutors to extend his detention, in a move nearly as unexpected as the auto tycoon's sudden arrest. With murder rate rising, how do Venezuelans survive? As if coping with constant food and medicine shortages were not enough for crisis-weary Venezuelans, many live in constant fear in a country where three people die violently every hour. How the Murder of 132 Slaves Helped End the Slave Trade The history of slavery is full of heartless and cruel stories, but one heinous case forced the action needed to end the British slave trade. Saudi Arabia rules out extraditing Khashoggi suspects Saudi Arabia's foreign minister has ruled out the extradition of suspects in the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, after Istanbul's chief prosecutor filed warrants for the arrest of two former senior Saudi officials. Emily Wither reports from Ist Three guilty of murder over Leicester shop explosion Three men who killed five people in a "bomb-like" shop blast have been convicted of murder and plotting to claim a GBP300,000 insurance pay-out. Dennis Oland police interview shown at murder trial Video of a Saint John police interview with Dennis Oland conducted in 2011 has been shown to his murder trial. Oland, who has pleaded not guilty to second-degree murder, denies killing his father in an excerpt from the interview. Prosecutors indict Nissan, Ghosn: reports Tokyo prosecutors have indicted Nissan along with its ousted Chairman Carlos Ghosn, according to domestic media. Tokyo Detention Centre where Carlos Ghosn is being held Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn is held at the Tokyo Detention Centre two days after he was arrested for alleged financial misconduct. Ex-Nissan chief Ghosn charged and served fresh warrant Japanese prosecutors formally charge Carlos Ghosn with financial misconduct for under-reporting his salary and also serve a fresh warrant on separate allegations, local media report, meaning the tycoon will likely spend Christmas in a cell. Jamie Foxx won't face charges over sexual misconduct allegation Award-winning star Jamie Foxx won't face any charges for allegedly slapping a woman in the face with his penis. Tourists in shock after two Scandinavian tourists murdered Tourists say they are in shock following the discovery of the bodies of two Scandinavian women in an isolated mountainous area 10 kilometres (six miles) from the tourist village of Imlil in the High Atlas range, a popular trekking destination. Mor... Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. AT&T sued over loss of cryptocurrency U.S. entrepreneur and cryptocurrency investor filed a $224 million lawsuit against AT&T, accusing it of fraud and gross negligence in connection with the theft of digital currency tokens from his personal account.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.