Kaveel Singh The NSRI rescue crew was called into action following a number of reported incidents at local beaches over the festive season. (PHOTO: Jamey Gordon) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Western Cape boy has been saved by rescue officials after he nearly drowned at Victoria Bay, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said on Monday. After lifeguards pulled the boy out of the water, the NSRI and other rescue officials attended to the youngster from George on Saturday afternoon. "The boy was administered medical oxygen and transferred to George Regional Hospital by EMS ambulance in a stable condition. He is expected to make a full recovery. "The lifeguards at Victoria Bay are commended for their vigilance and swift response which helped to save the boy's life," NSRI Wilderness spokesperson Mike Vonk said. Boat, helicopter rescue In a separate incident in Wilderness on Saturday, five crew members on a boat were rescued after their craft capsized at Jessa Point. It is believed that all five were assisted ashore by local dive charter boats and private boats. Isimangaliso Wetland staff responded and confirmed that all five crew members were uninjured and safely ashore and the boat had been recovered. On Sunday, a paraglider was rescued after colliding with a near-vertical cliff face in George. Rescue officials could not reach the glider. The EMS/AMS Skymed rescue helicopter was activated and used a nearby resident's lawn as a landing zone. The man was transported to hospital and treated for an ankle injury, before he was released.  Helicopter rescue of family of five A family of five and their two dogs were rescued from the roof of their house in Santa Barbara. RNLI issues safety warning after heatwave leads to spate of inflatable rescues RNLI volunteers rescue a teenager stranded out at sea on an inflatable dinghy in Blackpool. They have issued safety warnings as the recent heatwave has led to spate of inflatable rescues. Sewer handprints help to rescue 13-year-old boy stuck in pipe A 13-year-old boy was rescued from a sewer after fingerprints were found on the pipe. Jesse Hernandez was trapped in the Los Angeles sewer system for 12 hours. Rescuers work inside Thai cave system where boys remain trapped Footage from inside the Tham Luang cave, from Saturday, shows the efforts made by rescue workers to free the 12 trapped boys and their football coach. First Thai boys rescued from flooded cave Rescuers have got the first of the boys safely out of the flooded cave in Thailand where they have been trapped for two weeks. Canadian snowmobilers rescue moose trapped in snow Canadian snowmobilers have rescued a moose from 6ft of snow in Newfoundland. They spotted the animal's head sticking out of the snow while they were out for a ride on December 31. Chinese scientists create Terminator-inspired miniature liquid metal robot Inspired by the shape-shifting android from the 1991 blockbuster 'Terminator 2: Judgment Day', Chinese scientists have created a new type of robot powered by liquid metal. The miniature robot is able to move when the voltage of its battery is adju... Rescuers search rubble after buildings collapse in Marseille French rescue workers search for possible victims under the wreckage of two dilapidated buildings that suddenly collapsed Monday in the centre of the southern city of Marseille. Migrant boat turns down Aquarius rescue attempt A boatload of Tunisian migrants declined to be rescued by the charity ship Aquarius, highlighting the many challenges it faces trying to help stricken people adrift in the Mediterranean. George and Charlotte go to see royal baby The Duke of Cambridge takes the young prince and princess to hospital to meet their new royal sibling. Dog rescued from ice in freezing river RSPCA Inspector Jaqui Miller rescues a dog from the ice in the River Wansbeck at Black Close Bank in Ashington, Northumberland, on Wednesday December 13. Hikers killed after flash floods hit Italy At least 11 people were killed in southern Italy on Monday when a white-water creek in a deep mountain gorge swelled suddenly after heavy rain upstream. George and Charlotte visit royal baby The Duke of Cambridge takes the young prince and princess to hospital to meet their new royal sibling. Movie Premiere: Rampage The new movie Rampage follows a primatologist who must team up with George, a Gorilla who turns into a enormous sized creature following a rogue experiment in order to stop two other giant monsters. 89-year-old rescued from sinking car An 89-year-old man is rescued from a sinking car in Florida. The coast guard crew saw the vehicle go into a marina in Panama City and immediately launched their rescue. Schoolboys trapped in Thai cave 'in good spirits' Rescuers are looking into options for rescuing 12 boys and their football coach who have been trapped in a cave since June 23. The stickers that save lives Stickers on buses in Kenya have saved hundreds of lives. Sheep saved by sheer luck after four-day ordeal A stranded sheep spent at least four days on a jagged cliff face after falling around 250 feet, a boat crew said. Edmonton swimming pool without salt, chlorine draws lineups A new naturally filtered swimming pool in Edmonton is bringing in long lines of swimmers. The pool uses plants, zooplankton and granite instead of chlorine or salt to filter its emerald-green water.  . Edmonton swimming pool without salt or chlorine draws lineups A new naturally filtered swimming pool in Edmonton is bringing in long lines of swimmers. The pool uses plants, zooplankton and granite instead of chlorine or salt to filter its emerald-green water.  . Thai diver dies as rescue teams struggle to bring out trapped boys An ex-Thai navy SEAL lost consciousness and died while working on the rescue operation to save a group of young boys and their coach trapped in a flooded cave where oxygen levels are falling. WATCH: Farming community in George is a ghost town following a fire that claimed 8 lives The farming community of Farleigh in the Southern Cape is a ghost town following a fire that claimed eight lives on Tuesday. Don't try this on your holiday Young man jumps to swimming pool risking his own life. Pool high jump fail Person trying to do a high jump over a swimming pool. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. Hedgehog having fun in the swimming pool Hedgehog taking a swim Phase three of Thai cave rescue gets underway The third phase of an operation to rescue four remaining boys and their soccer coach trapped inside a flooded Thai cave began on Tuesday morning, the head of the rescue mission said. Helicopter rescues people, dogs from wildfire Newly released video shows the dramatic moment firefighters rescued three people and two dogs as thick smoke and flames fast approached in Southern California. Indian sailor rescued from yacht stranded off Australian coast The yacht of an Indian sailor was seen stranded at sea off the coast of Australia before he was rescued on Monday. Firefighters rescue dog from flaming building Firefighters are being commended for rescuing a dog from a burning apartment in Cordoba, Spain.

One of the rescue squad picks up the limp animal, running into the street to begin trying to save its life Hugs and cheers after West Virginia mine rescue Rescuers on Wednesday found alive three people who had been lost in a West Virginia mine for four days and brought them to safety. Man rescued from 80ft blowhole in Cornwall A man is in hospital with serious injuries after falling down part of an 80ft collapsed seacave in Trevone, Cornwall.

The rescue mission took three hours as rescuers had to be lowered into the hole. Thai Navy Seals say all 12 boys and their coach rescued from cave Thai Navy Seals said on Tuesday all 12 boys and their coach have been rescued from the cave, ending an ordeal that lasted more than two weeks. Thai rescue diver dies working on cave rescue A Thai rescuer has died after falling unconscious during part of an operation to rescue 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped inside a cave complex in northern Thailand. Paper cranes of hope for Thai cave rescue Classmates of rescued teenager Adul folded 1,000 paper cranes as they prayed for his safe return. Thailand cave rescue: What are the options? Bill Whitehouse from the British Cave Rescue Council explains how the boys and their coach might be rescued. Third Thailand cave rescue mission underway A third rescue operation to bring out the remaining four boys and their football coach from a flooded cave in Thailand has begun.

Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osatanakorn said the rescue mission began at 10.08am local time and involves 19 divers. Thai cave rescue: A country in prayer Rescuers have been searching for a group of boys who went to explore a cave with their football coach. 'Thank you' say the 12 Thai cave rescue boys and their coach in video messages The 12 Thai boys and their football coach, who were rescued from a flooded cave, say thank you from their hospital beds. Swimmers rescued by drone Lifeguards were being trained how to use the drone when the drama unfolded in what's being called a world first rescue. Italy shuts ports to ship with over 600 migrants A rescue ship with more than 600 migrants on board was drifting in international waters on Monday as Italy's new interior minister doubled down on his decision to stop it docking in an Italian port. Lions suspected in drowning of 400 buffaloes in Botswana More than 400 buffaloes believed to have been chased by lions drown in a river in northern Botswana. The mass drowning occurred on Tuesday night in Chobe River on the border with Namibia. Buffalo river drownings are not uncommon in the region, but... Meghan rescues Harry from the rain in Dubbo The Duchess of Sussex came to the rescue when Harry was caught in the rain without an umbrella in Dubbo, Australia. Two cops jump into the sea to rescue drowning kangaroo A kangaroo with an apparent love of the sea was rescued from the waves by two police officers in Melbourne. Iguana saved from tree hanging over a canal A stray iguana has been rescued from the top of a cherry tree hanging over a canal in Lancaster. The RSPCA captured the moment of the rescue of the pet on camera. Why is the Aquarius migrant rescue ship empty? The boat has been caught in the middle of a diplomatic row meaning it's been unable to undertake rescue operations. Man Rescued From Mud Had Parrot On Shoulder A man had to be rescued from mud - with a parrot on his shoulder. The gentleman went into the area to rescue his parrot who had inadvertently flown into the mud. Thai boys wave to world from hospital in first video since rescue The first video of the Thai boys rescued from a flooded cave after 17 days was released on Wednesday, showing them smiling and waving from their hospital beds. Little accident in the swimming pool Woman tries to get comfortable in her inflatable chair.  FAIL! Almost 1,000 migrants rescued in one day The Libyan coastguard carried out 3 operations rescuing 948 migrants and recovering 10 bodies off the coast of Libya on Sunday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.