Riaan Grobler Netcare 911 (File, Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man has been knocked down by a train in
Fordsburg, Johannesburg, but managed to survive. According to Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst,
the emergency response unit reacted to reports of a collision on Carr Street in
Fordsburg at 17:15 on Wednesday. "Reports from the scene indicate that an adult
male sustained serious injuries after being struck by a train. "The patient sustained serious injuries and
was treated on scene by an advanced life support paramedic. "Once stabilised, the patient was transported
to hospital for further treatment. "All necessary authorities were on
scene," Herbst said. In October, a man was found in a critical condition
after he was pulled under a train at the Salt River railway station in the
Western Cape. In September, a man was killed after being hit by a
train at a railway crossing in Heathfield, Cape Town.   WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. 98-year-old attacked and robbed at home A 98-year-old is critically ill in hospital after being attacked and robbed WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... Over 1,000 people evacuated in West End gas leak Two major railway stations were closed and 1,450 people were evacuated after a gas main ruptured in central London.

Witnesses described "chaos" as doormen at the Heaven nightclub ordered them to leave after the alarm was raised at around 2am. WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. Helsinki goes underground Finland's capital is going underground, as there's little space to build above ground. There are plans to construct shopping centers, train stations and museums. Conditions below ground are often ideal, with constant temperatures and low humidity. Police update on man charged with murder in Toronto subway death Toronto police are asking witnesses to come forward after a man was allegedly pushed in front of a train at a Toronto subway station Monday. John Reszetnik, 57, has been charged with first-degree murder in connection with the incident.  . Transport secretary confirms East Coast Main Line to go under public control Transport secretary Chris Grayling on the announcement that that rail services on the East Coast Main Line will be brought back under public control following the termination of the franchise agreement with Virgin Trains. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Firefighters run Soweto Marathon in 18kg gear to honour fallen colleagues Three Johannesburg firefighters ran the Old Mutual Soweto Marathon on Sunday in bunker gear, to commemorate their fallen colleagues. Mel B visited in hospital by her Spice Girls bandmates Mel B’s spirits have been given a big boost after her fellow Spice Girls visited her in hospital where she is currently recovering from a freak accident and emergency surgery. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. Khumbula - Dandyness with a political message In South Africa a collective of fashion-forward dandies are challenging stereotypes about life in the country's townships. The group, called Khumbala, hails from Alexandra in Johannesburg. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday. Animal Clinic - Part 6 Gillian finds a boxer in distress, a cat has emergency surgery on its ears, and some runaway ducklings are rescued in an apartment block. VIDEO FROM THE SCENE: Three men injured in apparent hostage drama at Randfontein church A man was shot and two others were injured while trying to escape an alleged hostage situation at a church in Randfontein, Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Total Shutdown Gauteng' hands over letter of demand at JSE Members of the Total Shutdown Gauteng grouping marched on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Tuesday, demanding a full audit of coloured representation in listed businesses and a commitment to rectifying the lack of coloured representivity. Chicago shooting: Two hospital employees and police officer among four dead An emergency room physician and a police officer have been named among the four people killed during a shooting at a Chicago hospital. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. Ottawa hospital set up extra triage space for bus crash patients Provincial police say a bus carrying Chinese tourists crashed in eastern Ontario on Monday, sending at least 24 people to hospital. The emergency room chief at an Ottawa hospital explains their response in receiving some of the patients. VIDEO | Festive blitz: 11 Joburg nightclubs raided during late night police operation Eleven places of entertainment were raided in the Johannesburg inner city on Tuesday night as part of the Buya Mthetho campaign. Ella Eyre inspired by transport Ella Eyre has started taking public transport again because she finds it inspirational. Fears for missing girl last seen on CCTV at railway station Fears are growing for the welfare of a 14-year-old girl who was last seen getting off a train in south-west London more than a fortnight ago. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. Skate fail! Skater at the train station. From Japanese train station to guest house Meet Tatsuhiko Tomioka who gave a new lease of life to a disused train station in Japan. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. Men held after car hits pedestrians in Melbourne More than a dozen people have been injured, some seriously, and two men have been arrested after a car collided with pedestrians outside a major train station in Australia. Bangladeshis pack trains and ferries for Eid Thousands of Bangladeshis flock to Dhaka's train stations and ferry terminals in hope of returning home to celebrate Eid-al-Fitr with their families. Train crash in Turkey kills several people At least nine people have been and dozens more injured after a high speed train collided with another locomotive and crashed into an overpass at a train station in Ankara on Thursday. Rail dangers warning for Christmas partygoers Festive partygoers are being advised to take extra care while travelling on trains, as newly released data from Network Rail, British Transport Police and RSSB reveals a sharp increase in the number of alcohol-related incidents across the network. Rail warning for Christmas partygoers Festive partygoers are being advised to take extra care while travelling on trains, as newly released data from Network Rail, British Transport Police and RSSB reveals a sharp increase in the number of alcohol-related incidents across the network. Rail passengers reminded to look out for their friends' safety this Christmas Festive party-goers are being urged to take extra care of their friends and colleagues - as new figures reveal that within the Christmas and New Year period, the number of violent offences recorded at railway stations fuelled by alcohol have more ... Taxi strike targeting Uber brings chaos to Spanish cities Spanish taxi drivers are blocking streets in major cities including Barcelona and Madrid, in a bid to pressure the government to curb licenses to online ride-hailing apps like Uber. Japan's deadly typhoon is the worst in 25 years Japan issued evacuation advisories for more than a million people and canceled hundreds of flights as Typhoon Jebi sliced across the west on Tuesday, cutting power, overturning cars and killing at least six people. XPRIZE finalist Cloud DX's Vitaliti is a serious health wearable An outgrowth of the Qualcomm Tricorder XPRIZE, Vitaliti is designed to work on patients recently released from the hospital, so their attending physician can continue to monitor them remotely. Watch Retail at 1880s Train Stations Did you know that a side-hustle in the 1800s started the Sears empire? George 'rules the roost', says William Prince William has a chat with a Liverpool hospital patient about his four-year-old. Japanese maker of train in deadly Taiwan crash finds design flaw The Japanese manufacturer of a train that derailed in Taiwan killing 18 people says it has discovered a design flaw that failed to alert the central control system that an automatic safety feature had been turned off. Seth Rogen is the new voice of Vancouver public transit Movie fans in Vancouver, Canada have a new reason to celebrate, as they'll soon hear the voice of Seth Rogen giving them info when they take public transportation within the city. Drake surprises young heart patient in hospital Singer Drake surprises young heart patient at children's hospital in Chicago after she invited him to pay a visit. Drake surprises young heart patient in hospital Singer Drake surprises young heart patient at children's hospital in Chicago after she invited him to pay a visit. Identifying People With Dementia And Delirium Often the negative outcomes caused by dementia and delirium are preventable if the delirium is identified and treated quickly.  Experts in healthcare for older people want hospital staff to treat mental and cognitive state as one of the patient's ... New hip-replacement technique aims to speed up recovery A Toronto hospital's new hip-replacement technique is allowing some patients to leave hospital the day of the operation. A surgeon at St. Michael's Hospital says the approach signifies a new "ideology" for the surgery. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. Local celebs shine on SA Fashion Week red carpet Local celebs came dressed in the finest fashions as they stepped onto the red carpet at the Cruz Vodka SA Fashion Week launch party in Johannesburg. Eyewitness: 'He blew up his suitcase' An eyewitness has been describing the moment an explosion went off at Brussels Central train station. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.