Jenna Etheridge Xolani Hadebe in his graduation gown. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders. Watch.WATCH Xolani Hadebe, 27, always dreamed of being a doctor, but the initial prognosis wasn't very positive - he received rejection letters from all the medical schools in the country and he did not have money for studies. He and his siblings were raised by single mom Letta Elizabeth in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, and he managed to obtain his matric at a rural school. Despite his circumstances, Hadebe didn't take himself out of the race and ended up packing bags at the local Spar, so he could save and plot a way forward. He was eventually accepted at Stellenbosch University and, this week, graduated with his proud mom and some of his siblings at his side. READ: Daughter of Stellenbosch farmworkers beats the odds to become doctor "It was amazing and very emotional," he told News24 on Wednesday. "I was overwhelmed, thinking about all the struggles we had to go through to get this degree." Working at a supermarket to save money for university was hard because he had to pack groceries for his former classmates. He would sometimes hide so they did not see or pity him for working there while they continued with their studies. It was also tough receiving university rejection letters. "I honestly believe it was my family who kept me going, such as my mother who sacrificed so much for us. My grandmother also used to call me doctor. Before she passed away, I made a promise I would be a doctor." ALSO READ: Never give up on your dreams, says Stellenbosch graduate Hadebe recalled challenges, such as travelling to the Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University in Pretoria to find out why his application was unsuccessful and why he didn't get feedback. He arrived there late in the day, using public transport, and a campus security guard offered him a place to sleep for the night, which he gladly accepted. Now that his studies at Stellenbosch are complete, Hadebe plans to do his community service internship at a hospital in Newcastle. "It's quite scary, but I am very much happy that I am working closer to home and can learn more. I am looking forward to a new level of challenge." Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.