Alex Mitchley (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Seven speedsters were arrested by the Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) on Reconciliation Day on Sunday. EMPD spokesperson Wilfred Kgasago said that drivers were arrested by the High Speed Unit on the R21 freeway between the Olifantsfontein Road bridge and Engen 1-Stop filling station, which is a 120km/h zone. "All the arrestees were male save for one, with ages ranging between 26 and 40, all behind the wheels of sedan vehicles advancing reasons from rushing to visit family, rushing to the airport to being late for a funeral," said Kgasago. "They were locked up after clocking speeds of 173, 172,172,171,166,165 and 163 km/h." WATCH: Metro cop loses his cool after truck driver refuses to stop for police 'in the bushes' A video of a Namibian-registered truck refusing to pull off the road on police instructions last week has sparked heated debates on Facebook. Additionally, eight spot fights were issued to drivers for using cellphones without a hands-free kit, disregarding of traffic signals and without driving licences in the vehicle. The arrested drivers were detained at Olifantsfontein police station on charges of reckless and negligent driving and subsequently released after each had posted bail of R1 000. They are expected to appear in the Tembisa Magistrate’s Court soon. The EMPD also arrested 11 drivers who were allegedly driving under the influence of alcohol, said Kgasago. "Four drivers were arrested in Katlehong, two in Tembisa, two in Germiston and one each in Putfontein, Brakpan and Tokoza. "All the male arrestees aged between 22 and 41 were detained at respective police stations and are expected to appear before a magistrate to face charges of driving under the influence of alcohol soon." WATCH: Police threaten to slap man for filming pulled over Lamborghini A resident of Daveyton on the East Rand was threatened by Ekurhuleni metro police on Sunday after he stopped to film footage of a green Lamborghini that had been pulled over by officers. WATCH: Four injured in Boksburg chemical explosion Four people were injured when a chemical factory exploded in Boksburg, Ekurhuleni on Thursday afternoon. WATCH: Ekurhuleni is the 'engine of economic growth' - Ramaphosa at launch of train plant President Cyril Ramaphosa has described Ekurhuleni, where the official launch of a  multi-billion rand train manufacturing plant was held, as the engine of economic growth in the country. The plant is expected to deliver two new trains by December 20 WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.