Riaan Grobler A screenshot of the scuffle between photographers and security officials.  (Screenshot) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Unaccredited photographers who wanted to get a piece of the action at a Cape Town graduation ceremony instead found themselves trading blows with security officials. On Monday, the festive mood at the graduation ceremony of the Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) was somewhat disrupted by the unaccredited photographers who had gathered on the Bellville campus. A video doing the rounds on social media shows photographers being tackled, kicked and thrown to the ground by security officials. WATCH: Protesting CPUT students toss mattresses, bookshelves, bottles out of residence Two men appear visibly injured following the altercation. CPUT issued a statement on its social media platforms following the incident.  "We are aware of a video being circulated on social media involving a scuffle between freelance photographers and security at a graduation ceremony on Monday 10 December at our Bellville campus," CPUT said on Wednesday. 'Safety a concern' "The safety and security of our students and their family members are our foremost concern and a dim view is taken of any attempt to disrupt this special occasion. "It is worth noting that, at the time, the photographers in the video did not have the appropriate accreditation to operate on campus. "The service providers used during graduation have all been appropriately vetted through stringent procurement processes. "This is to avoid students and loved ones being taken advantage of by unscrupulous characters. "The photographers in this instance were warned to stop operating on campus by the head of Bellville Campus Security. "The matter has now been resolved, our director of Campus Security will be compiling a full report on the incident and it will be thoroughly investigated."  WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.