Pelane Phakgadi (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories As part of their "high-density operations" to curb crime during the festive season, police have shut down several shebeens, confiscated thousands of rands worth of alcohol, and arrested over 160 illegal immigrants. Police spokesperson Motlafela Mojapelo said on Saturday no stone will be left unturned to ensure a safe festive season for people in the province. "This area in the Musina policing area constitutes about 90% of crimes our members respond to, hence we have placed roadblocks here today (Saturday)." Undocumented foreign nationals were arrested between Musina and the Beitbridge border post in Limpopo. Stop and search operations were conducted, led by the provincial police commissioner Lieutenant General Nneke Ledwaba. Several other shebeens were shut down during another operation, also in the same area, for failing to comply with liquor trade regulations. "Some shops did not have licences to trade, hence we closed them down.. and we have confiscated liquor worth thousands of rands in the process," said Mojapelo. Police also urged motorists who will be using the N1 North between Pretoria and Musina to only stop at designated or safe areas, citing prevalent robberies which occur along the stretch of road. #FestivePolicing Over 160 illegal immigrants have been arrested between Musina and the Beitbridge border post in Limpopo, following the police's "high density operations" today. This is part of ongoing festive operations in the province, to fight crime. @TeamNews24  WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Meet The Face Of Amarula In The Limpopo Bush You don't have to go to fancy golf resorts or city boutique hotels for a luxury long weekend tryst - and at the Amarula Lapa in Limpopo you can even taste the wild of Africa and feel like bush royalty. When your day in Sabi starts with a leopard kill inside the camp... Staff in Idube Game Reserve who spend their entire time in the bush could not believe this early-morning kill which took place right on the lawn of the lodge. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.