Jenni Evans Philip Le Roux during a cycling trip in Europe (Supplied by Etienne van Cuyck) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tributes were pouring in for the curator of the world-famous Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden, Philip le Roux, who died in the early hours of Wednesday after being injured in a cycling accident. "He has done amazing stuff," said friend and fellow cyclist Robert Vogel, the CEO of Pedal Power Association. It was Le Roux who gave the go-ahead to cut a cycling trail off the beaten track through parts of the 528-hectare park, so that cyclists could also enjoy its splendour. Vogel said he and Le Roux had spent many hours walking possible trails and marking them out. "He never saw it as a problem to have cyclists in the grounds. He was so happy. He was a cyclist himself." Choking up, Vogel said that Le Roux was involved in a collision with a car at a popular spot known as Suikerbossie. "He was in a coma, but did not improve. It's terrible."   (Supplied by Etienne van Cuyck) According to posts on cycling site BikeHub, the accident occurred on December 2, around 07:30 on the way down Suikerbossie, as Le Roux approached the road. One person urged riders to be aware of the vehicles at that point, cautioning that it is sometimes difficult for motorists to see riders approaching from the path.   Le Roux, a Parktown Boys High School alumnus, started as curator of the gardens in 1987 after a period of study in horticulture and forestry. "He loved music," said friend and fellow cyclist Etienne van Cuyck. He said that Le Roux enjoyed attending outdoor concerts and would pull out a piece of paper to write down the name of a good band that was playing, look them up, and try to get them to perform at the gardens. Van Cuyck and Le Roux have cycled together locally and overseas. He was with Le Roux on the morning of the accident. It occurred at a known hotspot for accidents, with cyclists having to brake down a hill, and vehicles not always having good sight of them coming on to the road. There is a traffic light, but cyclists have also been discussing whether there are other ways of making it safer, and are urging even more caution at that point. "It was very sad," Van Cuyck said. "He was such a gentleman."  (Supplied by Etienne van Cuyck) He paid tribute to Le Roux's work at Kirstenbosch gardens and said that, although the gardens could say more about his work, he felt that Le Roux "did so much for the place". The SA National Botanical Institute, which is in charge of the gardens, was asked to comment and, when its reply is received, it will be added. Le Roux leaves a wife and a son. Western Cape police spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said that circumstances surrounding the incident are unknown at this stage. "A case of culpable homicide was registered for further investigation. No arrest has been made as yet," he said. Toyota, SoftBank team up as push to self-drive accelerates Toyota and SoftBank say they will team up to develop car services that rely on self-driving technology, such as hospital shuttles, as they envision a future in which fewer people drive their own vehicles. As David Pollard reports, the partnership ... London mayor launches new electric car charging ports around the city Sadiq Khan has launched 51 new rapid charging points in London, which he hopes will help encourage people to get electric vehicles. They can charge vehicles like the new electric taxi up to full in just thirty minutes. NASCAR Welcome to the adrenaline-fuelled world of NASCAR and the people who keep the cars on the oval. Hate parking? This car shrinks itself to fit The latest entry into the market for tiny cars that can fit into tiny parking spaces may come from Israel, with a concept electric vehicle that can shrink its wheelbase to the size of a motorcycle. Matthew Larotonda reports Tesco, Volkswagen to develop UK electric vehicle charging network Britain's biggest retailer Tesco has announced a deal with German automaker Volkswagen to develop 2,400 charging bays at 600 Tesco stores across the UK over the next three year. Francis Maguire reports on an industry in the midst of an electric revol Bicycle comeback in Beijing? Beijing was once filled with bicycles. But as prosperity grew, those who could swapped their bikes for automobiles. Now bike-share systems have hit the scene. Will two-wheeled transportation soon rule the roads in China's capital once again? Loading cars safely Forty percent of Germans vacation by car. But with all that luggage, it's important to know the safe way to load your vehicle. You can also save time and frustration by planning things right. Auto sales depict worrying trend Passenger vehicles sales down in Nov because of muted festive season, Inventory build-up has led to production cuts to correct inventories, says Vishnu Mathur, Director General, SIAM. Auto sales in the slow lane Tepid demand for passenger cars China cuts duty on U.S. car imports Auto sales in slow lane, low demand and high rates dent autos. Protesters set cars on fire in Paris A car is set on fire on Saturday on Hoche avenue, close to Champs-Elysées avenue, as Paris was hit by violence in the latest demonstrations against President Emmanuel Macron. Best winter getaway cars for less than GBP10,000 If you're planning to hit the road for leisure in the coming months, it would be worth having a car that can face the conditions. Here are some sub-GBP10,000 used cars that are up to the task. Lexus Owners Club Cape Town rally together for a special send off Laurika Walters needed a car for her farewell and the Lexus Owners Club Cape Town stepped up for the special event. Peugeot 508 sedan The new mid-range French car combines strikingly elegant design with sportiness and high safety. Our test car is powered by a two-liter diesel engine, which of course meets the latest emissions standard. Bye Bye Car Driverless cars will be how we move around in the future. In 10 years' time, Ford Motors' Bill Ford says his company will sell mobility, not cars. We ask the experts, including Tesla pioneer Elon Musk, what they think the future has in store for us. Coup d'accélérateur pour la voiture électrique Concentration record en CO2, chaleurs extrêmes, recul des glaces: les derniers indicateurs du réchauffement montrent l'accélération d'un phénomène planétaire et disent l'urgence à agir, alors que s'ouvre dimanche la 24e conférence de l'ONU sur les... Turning 107 in style - celebrating with a cycle ride What better way to spend your 107th birthday than with a bike ride? Senior cyclist Robert Marchand blew out his birthday candles after cycling around 15km on a green track in Ardèche, in the south west of France, surrounded by supporters. Although... Man shot by cyclist in Belle Vale A 27-year-old man dies after being shot by a gunman riding a push bike in Belle Vale, Liverpool. Via is looking into developing its own vehicle Daniel Ramot (Via) says his company is looking into developing its own van to serve future cities #TCDisrupt VW embarks on $50 bln electrification plan Volkswagen expects to become the most profitable manufacturer of electric cars thanks to a huge expansion plan to mass produce battery driven vehicles, Chief Executive Herbert Diess said on Friday.  As Laura Frykberg reports, the carmaker is set to s Fixing bikes in Marrakech Jobs for young people are scarce in Morocco. Many think they stand a better chance of a decent future in Europe. Those with marketable skills are more likely to thrive at home. A project in Marrakech trains bicycle mechanics and tour guides. Car demand collapse outruns GM's moves General Motors' monumental announcement that it will close three car assembly plants in North America and slash its workforce will only partially close the gap between capacity and demand for the automaker's sedans. Mogadishu car bomb kills at least seven civilians Seven civilians were killed and five were wounded in a new car bomb at a busy market in Mogadishu. The explosion occurred after security forces stopped a suspicious vehicle at the market in the south of the city. Trump says China to cut tariffs on U.S.-made autos after trade war truce China has agreed to "reduce and remove" tariffs below the 40 percent level that Beijing is currently charging on U.S.-made vehicles, U.S. President Donald Trump said, as a trade war truce between the two countries gathers pace, cheering markets.  As WATCH: Behind the scenes at the De Hoek plaza The De Hoek Plaza located in Heidelburg, Gauteng, on a normal day in December 5, 2017 saw 715 motor vehicles pass the tolls at 3pm and saw 2,621 motor vehicles pass through its lanes on it busiest day December 22, 2017, during the same hour. French protesters block roads over fuel-tax rise French protesters from the 'yellow vest' movement have blocked roads and fuel depots in anger over fuel-tax hikes. Lucy Fielder reports BMW presents new autonomous, electric car in Los Angeles German high-end carmaker BMW presents a new electric and autonomous car in Los Angeles ahead of the Auto Show, hoping that the model can take on Tesla in the electric car sector. Electric speedster: Cupra's e-Racer Cupra plans to use its latest creation - the eRacer - in the E-TCR Series, the first all-electric touring car series that's due to debut in 2020. We take a look at the car that could lead the charge into the electric era in car racing. Burning rubber and trying to master the art of spinning Spinning has become a big part of the motorsport culture in SA. Ernest Page gets behind the wheel of a street built drift car and learns a bit more about what it represents. Top 12 finalists for the 2019 SA Car of the Year The South African Guild of Motoring Journalists has announced the finalists in the 2019 SA Car of the Year competition. Take a look at the 12 cars vying for the crown. Pollution-reducing pavement fights smog Researchers in Poland say a special pavement using photocatalytic concrete reduces pollutants from car fumes. The Limited Sky Even if regional transportation becomes more efficient, people and goods will still need to travel the world. This episode looks at new technologies and policies that could offset the aviation industry's substantial greenhouse gas emissions. What's the future of autonomous vehicles in ride sharing? Short-term autonomous vehicles are seriously over-hyped and we won't see the true effects for next three years at least, says Taxify co-founder Markus Villig #TCDisrupt 1 killed in fiery Brooklyn Bridge crash An auto wreck on the Brooklyn Bridge killed one person Wednesday and sparked a fire that engulfed three vehicles and cut off a key Manhattan river crossing at the start of the morning rush hour on one of the busiest travel days of the year. Stunning festive illumination lights up Kew's Royal Botanic Gardens More than one million lights are illuminated as part of Kew Garden's after-dark landscape trail at the Royal Botanic Gardens in Richmond. German court rules VW must reimburse owner full price of car A German court has ruled Volkswagen must reimburse the owner of a Golf the full original price of nearly 30,000 euros for a vehicle bought in 2012, dealing a blow to the carmaker as the legal battles over its emissions cheating scandal drag on. Football fan stomps on car roof after troubled derby A football fan who stomped on top of a car after a troubled local derby was caught on camera by the damaged vehicle's furious owner.

Gaynor Beresford, from Stoke-on-Trent, filmed the culprit following a match between Port Vale and Stoke City Unde... France moves to oust Ghosn from Renault, defends alliance France moved on Tuesday to oust Carlos Ghosn from the helm of Renault a day after his arrest in Japan on financial misconduct allegations, but sought to defend the carmaker's alliance with Nissan, which has been rocked by the scandal. Chrissy Teigen's life saver Chrissy Teigen was saved by a kind stranger when she almost walked out into the path of an oncoming cyclist. Mountain Biking Trails Travel with Miles Rowland from World Nomads as he explores Trinidad & Tobago, navigating the landscape by mountain bike, and discovering the tropical nature and wildlife of the Caribbean. Having fun on a treadmill Young man riding bicycle on treadmill. Stunning illuminations light up Wakehurst festival An incredible tree-scape projection on the front of an Elizabethan mansion was the centrepiece for this year's Glow Wild, winter lantern at Wakehurst. The festival sees the botanic garden and woodland lit with thousands of paper lanterns. Always look left! A bike rider pulls out in front of a car which crashes into him. Bike rider epic fail! A cyclist misjudges a large puddle and goes headfirst over the handlebars. Velo Liberte Paris' ambitious Velo Liberte bike initiative encourages residents to forgo cars for bikes and public transportation. In the process, the programme has fostered a unique popular culture, complete with its own language, jokes and pick-up lines. Kew Gardens reveals winter light show Kew Gardens has opened its impressive winter light show. For the festive season, the Unesco-listed botanical gardens in London has been covered with over 1,000,000 lights. U.S. plans to rewrite rules that impede self-driving cars The Trump administration is moving ahead with plans to revise safety rules that bar fully self-driving cars from the roads without equipment such as steering wheels, pedals and mirrors. New petrol and diesel vehicles to be banned from 2040 in bid to tackle pollution New diesel and petrol cars and vans will be banned from 2040 as part of efforts to tackle air pollution, UK Environment Secretary Michael Gove has said. He also pledged to work with local authorities developing diesel scrappage schemes. Motorist storms runway of Lyon airport during intense police chase A 31-year old man rammed into a fence in Lyon international airport after entering the runway. Dozens of police and security officers on cars, motorcycles and even a helicopter took part in the operation. The offender left the car and attempted to...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.