Nosipiwo Manona Timothy Omotoso  ((Lulama Zenzile, Netwerk24)) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pastor Timothy Omotoso's legal team say they are preparing to approach the Constitutional Court, after the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) dismissed their application to have the judge overseeing the case recuse himself. "We are proceeding with an application to the Constitutional Court for leave to appeal," advocate Peter Daubermann said in a text message to News24 on Tuesday. This after the SCA found that Daubermann's application to have Judge Mandela Makaula recuse himself had "no reasonable prospect of success". READ: SCA dismisses Omotoso's bid for judge's recusal, trial to proceed WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. Omotoso and one of his co-accused, Lusanda Sulani, lodged the applications shortly after the State's first witness, Cheryl Zondi, gave emotional testimony in the rape-accused pastor's case. The pair, as well as Zukiswa Sitho, face 63 charges and 34 alternative charges, which include rape and sexual assault. Zondi filed for a leave of absence from the trial so that she could write her exams earlier in October. In the recusal application, Omotoso's defence team argued that Makaula was "too friendly" with Zondi and that it was believed that he would not be impartial. But Makaula rejected their assertions and their recusal application, labelling it "ridiculous" and "dubious". ALSO READ: Omotoso rape trial postponed to the new year The matter was taken to the SCA and that court delivered its decision this week. The SCA also rejected an application to have the charges against Omotoso quashed. The trial was expected to resume on February 4, 2019. 'Over the moon' Earlier on Tuesday, Prosecutor Nceba Ntelwa said they were "over the moon" with the SCA's decision, and added that they were ready to proceed. "I could not sleep last night with excitement after receiving the order," Ntelwa said. "When we resume with the trial in February, we will up the game." Omotoso will spend his second Christmas behind bars having been denied bail since his arrest in April 2017. His two co-accused are still out on bail. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail?   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.