Kaveel Singh Sadia Sukhraj. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It was a brief first appearance in the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban for murder and hijacking accused Sibonelo Mkhize who was allegedly involved in a botched hijacking that resulted in the death of 9-year-old Sadia Sukhraj. Mkhize, 35, who wore spectacles and a white shirt, appeared calm on Monday morning. He will remain in police custody until his trial, which has been set down from February 13 to 28, 2019. Mkhize is facing charges of murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances following Sadia's death in Shallcross, Chatsworth, in Durban on May 28. #OurLostChildren: Remembering Sadia Sukhraj - killed in botched hijacking Moments of quiet reflection, smiling faces and tears dominated those who spoke out about the life and personality of a slain 9-year-old KwaZulu-Natal girl. READ: Alleged murderer to stand trial for killing Sadia Sukhraj in a botched hijacking Mkhize's alleged accomplice, Siyabonga Bulose, was killed as the two of them attempted to flee from the crime scene. On the day of the incident, the duo allegedly demanded car keys from Sadia's father, well-known Pastor Shailendra Sukhraj, at gunpoint. 33 witnesses to be called The shocked father threw his car keys at the assailants. While they were fleeing the scene with Sadia inside the vehicle, Shailendra fired several gunshots towards the hijackers with his licensed firearm. The Grade 4 Everest Primary School pupil was shot in the chest and was taken to Chatsmed Hospital where she later succumbed to her injuries. Bulose died immediately after the car came to a stop. His cause of death was described as a penetrating gunshot wound to the pelvis. Sadia's death sparked massive public outcry over crime in Chatsworth. Mkhize was arrested by an off-duty police officer a short distance from Sadia's grandparents' home. Mkhize previously claimed in court that police beat him, but prosecutor Surekha Marimuthoo disputed this and countered that Mkhize sustained his injuries from a public beating during his arrest. The State is expected to call 33 witnesses to testify in the murder case.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter David Duckenfield to face 95 manslaughter charges over Hillsborough fans' deaths Hillsborough match commander David Duckenfield is to face trial for the alleged manslaughter by gross negligence of 95 Liverpool supporters after a judge lifted a stay on his prosecution. Victims' father tries to attack disgraced ex-doctor Larry Nassar Randall Margraves, a father of three victims of Larry Nassar, has tried to attack the disgraced former sports doctor during a court hearing in Michigan.

Bailiffs tackled the father to the floor of the courtroom on Friday morning. Deutsche Bank offices raided in money laundering probe Roughly 170 criminal police officers, prosecutors and tax inspectors have searched six Deutsche Bank offices in and around Frankfurt on money allegations.  As Sonia Legg reports, news of the raids sent shares down almost three percent. Charged and Disbarred - Part 13 Ken Anderson was appointed to the court in 2002 by Governor Rick Perry. He resigned from his position on September 23, 2013 after he was arrested for withholding exculpatory evidence Couple, homeless man charged in GoFundMe scam Authorities say a New Jersey couple and a homeless man made up a "feel good" story about the man helping them so they could raise money through an online fundraiser. Chicago police release bodycam video of shooting Chicago police on Sunday released body camera footage of officers shooting dead a black man as he reached for his concealed handgun, hoping to quell two days of violent and peaceful protests that had branded the incident a case of police brutality. David Beckham's lawyer arrives for court hearing David Beckham's lawyer arrives for court hearing Lorde's set designer disagrees with 'stolen stage' allegation Lorde’s stage set designer has now waded in to the dispute in which the Royal’s singer has suggested that Kanye West and Kid Cudi stole her floating platform idea for a stage show, and disagreed with her! Man who lodged two jihadists faces appeals trial in France Jawad Bendaoud arrives in court, as prosecutors appeal a decision to release him, after he housed two jihadists following the November 2015 Paris attacks. Tesla replaces Elon Musk as a chairman Tesla chose one of its independent directors, Robyn Denholm, to take over from Elon Musk as the company's chairman. Sushant responds to allegations during Kedarnath trailer launch In the ongoing controversy surrounding the film Kizie Aur Manny, Sushant Singh Rajput has been accused of sexual harassment by his costar Sanjana Sanghi When asked about the allegation during the trailer launch of Kedarnath, Sushant firstly refuse... Beyonce's drummer fails to show up at court for witchcraft hearing The bizarre witchcraft charge filed against Beyonce by her former drummer has reportedly been thrown out of court as Queen Bey’s accuser failed to show up in court. Jailed Reuters reporters await final trial dates The two Reuters journalists who were detained while investigating the massacre of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar will face the final arguments of their trial in two weeks, as the court goes on hiatus after hearing character witnesses Protesters in Paris clash with police for third weekend Dozens of people are arrested after protesters angry about rising taxes clash with French police for a third weekend in a row. Swiss watchdog investigate banks over alleged payments system boycott Switzerland's competition watchdog has raided the offices of financial companies, including Credit Suisse and UBS, to investigate a suspected boycott of mobile payment solutions such as Apple Pay and Samsung Pay. Kavanaugh denies accusation as Ford describes alleged assault in emotional hearing Brett Kavanaugh denied allegations that he sexually assaulted Christine Blasey Ford and angrily told Congress that Democrats were engaged in "a calculated and orchestrated political hit".
In her own testimony, Ms Ford described the alleged assault. Soccer star Ronaldo denies rape allegations Global soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo says he firmly denies sexual assault accusations, after a Nevada woman sued him for alleged rape at a Las Vegas hotel in 2009. Vatican treasurer faces historical abuse trial Vatican Treasurer George Pell must face trial on charges of historical sexual offences, an Australian court ruled on Tuesday, making him the most senior Catholic official to be tried on such allegations. He pleaded not guilty. Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. Nissan prepares to oust its chairman Nissan said it's recommending that the board fire its chairman, Carlos Ghosn, after authorities arrested him for alleged financial misconduct. War criminal dies after taking poison during court hearing A war crimes convict who claimed to have taken poison during a UN court hearing has died, Croatia's prime minister has said. Slobodan Praljak, 72, drank from a bottle shortly after appeal judges confirmed his 20-year sentence. WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder China's Didi slammed after driver murders woman China says its largest ride-hailing firm Didi Chuxing had “unshirkable responsibility” for a carpool passenger being raped and killed by a driver. Six boys arrested in St. Michael’s assault investigation Six teens have been arrested and charged after an alleged sexual assault at St. Michael’s private school in Toronto. Police say anyone in possession of the video of the alleged incident should delete it immediately. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Gunmen kidnap Italian woman in Kenya An armed gang has abducted an Italian woman from a village in southeast Kenya, shooting and wounding five residents in the raid, police say. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part2) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Official: Avenatti in custody on domestic violence Official: Avenatti in custody on domestic violence Trial to start for man in fatal Virginia rally The trial is set to begin on Monday for an Ohio man charged with killing a woman after plowing his car into a group protesting a white nationalist rally in Virginia last year. Nathan Frandino has more. Blue Jays' Roberto Osuna to plead not guilty to assault: Lawyer Roberto Osuna's lawyer says the Blue Jays pitcher intends to plead not guilty to an assault charge. Following a court hearing Monday, Domenic Basile said the case won't be resolved quickly. Arkansas traffic-stop shootout caught by dashcam Dramatic dashcam video shows a sheriff’s deputy in a shootout following a traffic stop in Arkansas. About 40 shots were fired during the shootout Sunday. The suspect was later caught and faces attempted murder and other charges. Cosby arrives for sentencing hearing Bill Cosby, once known as ‘America’s dad,’ arrived for his sentencing hearing on a sexual assault conviction, Monday. Cosby became the first celebrity convicted of a sex crime since the emergence of the #MeToo movement last year. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 1 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.
Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Police receive two new videos in St. Michael’s investigation Toronto police have expanded their investigation into alleged assaults at St. Michael’s private school after receiving two new videos. Police say the videos involve a threat and an alleged assault with a weapon. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Guesthouse where gunmen abducted Italian woman on Kenya coast Images of the guesthouse in a village in southeastern Kenya where an armed gang abducted an Italian woman on Tuesday evening. The gang shot and wounded five residents in the raid, police say. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. Tokyo Detention Centre where Carlos Ghosn is being held Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn is held at the Tokyo Detention Centre two days after he was arrested for alleged financial misconduct. Woman assaulted and robbed at cashpoint in Leytonstone Police have released this shocking CCTV footage in an attempt to trace a woman who punched, slapped and robbed a 40-year-old woman at a cashpoint in Leytonstone.

The victim was withdrawing money from a cashpoint, while a second woman in her late ... Jamie Foxx won't face charges over sexual misconduct allegation Award-winning star Jamie Foxx won't face any charges for allegedly slapping a woman in the face with his penis. AT&T sued over loss of cryptocurrency U.S. entrepreneur and cryptocurrency investor filed a $224 million lawsuit against AT&T, accusing it of fraud and gross negligence in connection with the theft of digital currency tokens from his personal account. #OurLostChildren: Remembering Sadia Sukhraj - killed in botched hijacking Moments of quiet reflection, smiling faces and tears dominated those who spoke out about the life and personality of a slain 9-year-old KwaZulu-Natal girl. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  