Correspondent Prophet Shepherd Bushiri (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three
people have died and nine others were injured during a stampede at Prophet
Shepherd Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering Church in Pretoria on Friday
night, Tshwane West police confirmed. Spokesperson for the Tshwane West
Cluster police, Captain Augustinah Selepe, said in a statement that the police only
heard about the stampede on Saturday afternoon, and officers were immediately
dispatched to the scene. The
church is situated at the Tshwane Events Centre in Pretoria. According
to Selepe, the police believe that a thunderstorm prompted the congregation to
push each other around during a church service, leading to the stampede. The service
began at around 20:00 on Friday night. On Saturday morning Bushiri's attorney,
Terrance Baloyi of Baloyi Ntsako Attorneys, told News24 that the stampede
occurred when people tried to take shelter inside the church during a
thunderstorm. People panicked Baloyi said some people panicked
and he confirmed that three people were knocked unconscious. "We regret the incident as a
church because it happened within our premises," Baloyi said at the time. However, according to the police,
the exact cause of the incident is still unconfirmed. Police have also requested
that anyone with information about a missing person, who attended the church
service, please contact the Pretoria West police station. SAPS Tshwane West Cluster
Commander Major General DT Mthombeni also urged the public to be cautious
during the New Year's Day celebrations this week. The police have asked the public
to assist in creating a safe environment this week by cooperating with them,
and warned that drunk and reckless driving will not be tolerated. "We offer our most [sincere]
condolence[s] to the families who lost their loved ones during the stampede,
and speedy recovery to those injured," said Mthombeni.  'Church has fallen over a cliff' Abuse survivor Marie Collins wants to hear a clear plan of action on dealing with clerical sex abuse during the Pope's Ireland visit. Pitch perfect success for chart-topping nuns They may be sisters, but this is no act. The Dominican Sisters of Mary, Mother of the Eucharist have topped the charts just in time for Christmas. Prince Charles pays tribute to Christians in Middle East Prince Charles has delivered a speech at Westminster Abbey about peace. Ireland votes to lift blasphemy ban: exit polls Irish voters overwhelmingly back the lifting of a constitutional ban on blasphemy, according to exit polls, the latest reform relaxing the devout nation's historic ties to the Catholic Church. One congregation and Germany's far-right Catholic and Protestant bishops are both agreed that Christianity and the AfD's far-right policies are incompatible. Protestant pastor Beatrix Spreng has been squaring up to the conflict for years. The Striezelmarkt in Dresden Conjuring up the perfect Christmas spirit is hard work for those working at Dresden's Striezelmarkt Christmas market. Then there are all the concerns about security. Prince Charles uses Easter message to supports persecuted Christians The Prince of Wales has recorded an Easter message of support for persecuted Christians around the world. Ireland's 'forced' adoptions Paul Redmond has documented the treatment of unmarried mothers in Ireland who gave up their babies. How the War on Christmas Was Started by Christians Christmas hasn't always been an eggnog-fueled free-for-all in America. There was a time when even whistling a holiday tune was illegal. Pope Joan Time has turned this mythic tale of a woman's foray through the upper ranks of the Catholic Church into more fiction than fact. Where does the truth end & the legend begin? Pope asks for forgiveness for clerical abuse on final day of Ireland tour The Pope vowed to pursue justice for victims of church abuse in Ireland as he ended his historic visit to the country by seeking forgiveness for its dark litany of clerical crimes. England's slavery-football connection The racist treatment of English footballers from Jamaican backgrounds reflects a wider discussion on colonial legacy and what makes someone British. Pope apologises for Catholic Church crimes Pope Francis apologised for the 'scandal and betrayal' of Catholic priests' sexual exploitation of children around the world on August 26 in Dublin, Ireland. WATCH Police on the hunt for Tshwane CBD muggers.mp4 Video footage has surfaced of a group of men mugging a woman in the Tshwane CBD. Her terrified screams echo through the busy street. The ordeal is over in mere seconds. In South-East Turkey, all Christians pray under one roof In Diyarbakir, the main Kurdish city of South-East Turkey, there were once 46 churches. But today, only one remains open. The others are either destroyed or were closed by the government during clashes between Turkish army and the outlawed Kurdist... Police: one person dead in Nevada shooting Police say one person is dead and another is in custody following a shooting at a Nevada church. Pope blames Satan for church sex abuse crisis The devil is alive and well and working overtime to undermine the Roman Catholic Church, according to Pope Francis, and is responsible for the Church's sexual abuse crisis. Grenfell fire: Victims and friends prepare for memorial service six months on A memorial service to honour those who died in the Grenfell Tower fire will be an opportunity for "words of healing and truth", a bereaved relative said. 

Clarrie Mendy's cousin Mary Mendy and her daughter Khadija died in the fire. Pope tells predator priests to turn themselves in Pope Francis has urged predator priests who have sexually abused minors to turn themselves in at his traditional Christmas address to the Vatican. Swiss set up Sweden clash after pulsating draw Switzerland fans are happy as they draw with Costa Rica to setup a World Cup last-16 match against Sweden. Pope Francis 'excited' by Ireland visit The Pope has expressed hope his visit to Ireland will help grow unity and reconciliation among Christians on the island. Spirit of slain monks live on at Algerian monastery There are no longer Trappist monks at the small abbey in Algeria's Tibhirine made infamous by the slaughter of seven men who served there during the country's brutal civil war. But the memory of the French clergymen, kidnapped and beheaded over tw... Will and Kate in festive spirit at Christmas party The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge host a Christmas party for the families of RAF personnel serving in Cyprus over the festive period.

William and Kate welcomed families of personnel from RAF Coningsby and RAF Marham who are deployed on the Medite... Pope ashamed of clerical abuse failures Pope Francis said he is ashamed of the Catholic Church's failure to address clerical abuse. He was speaking at Dublin Castle to an audience which included Taioseach Leo Varadkar. Royals greet Sandringham crowd after service The Royal Family greeted well-wishers after attending the Christmas Day church service at the Queen's estate in Norfolk. American pastor flies into church service An American pastor from Brown Baptist Church in Southaven, Mississippi has flown into his service to teach his congregation the importance of being vigilant. Queen arrives at Sandringham Church on Christmas Day Queen and royal family arrive at Sandringham Church on Christmas Day Tiny Indonesian church pray for tsunami victims on Christmas day A few dozen congregants gathered at a little church just outside Indonesia's tsunami disaster zone on Christmas day to pray for the victims of the deadly disaster. WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Car-free zones piloted in Pretoria as part of Transport Month The City of Tshwane has created a temporary Car-Free Zone in the heart of Hatfield in Pretoria on Friday. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. A court interpreter in South Africa Royce Buda is one of the most important people at the Pretoria High Court. The interpreter speaks 16 languages and therefore he is vital in most cases. South Africa is a country with many languages. The Toronto designer behind Meghan Markle's Christmas coat Toronto designer Bojana Sentaler says it was an "honour" to see Meghan Markle wear her label's camel-coloured baby alpaca wrap coat at a Christmas church service with the Queen. Sentaler says Canada is driving the outerwear business globally. Clowns celebrate at annual church service Clowns attend the 70th anniversary of the Clown Church service, an annual service since 1946. The service takes place in memory of celebrated clown Joseph Grimaldi - an English clown who was born in London. PM 'disappointed' Pope won't apologize for residential schools The Pope has turned down a request from the Canadian government and Indigenous peoples to issue an apology for the Catholic Church's role in residential schools. Justin Trudeau says Canada will keep working towards reconciliation. Justin Bieber's religious songs Justin Bieber's Christian faith will reportedly influence the tracks on his upcoming new album. 'Who are we to put limits on God?' The Catholic Church has announced a new focus on the role of women - but is it enough? WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so. US Preacher: Trump is 'work in progress' The most prominent Christian leader in the US, Franklin Graham, said Trump was no model of Christianity but that he is "defending Christians from secularists". A Dutch church is holding a marathon service to block a family's Christmas deportation Worshippers at a church in the Netherlands have been holding round-the-clock prayer services for more than six weeks to prevent an Armenian family from being deported, hoping for a Christmas miracle. Trump's ambassador lobbying for Tommy Robinson? US Ambassador for International Religious Freedom, Sam Brownback, reportedly complained to the British Embassy about the treatment of English far-right activist Tommy Robinson. Thousands marry at South Korea mass wedding South Korea's controversial Unification Church holds a mass wedding with about 4,000 couples from 64 countries exchanging marriage vows. Meet the priest rapping religion Father Paul aka 'sweet Paul' is no ordinary priest. Philippines president Rodrigo Duterte apologises to God President Rodrigo Duterte has made a 'qualified' apology to his 'all-forgiving God' following criticism over his attacks on God and the teachings of Christianity. Ariana Grande video chats with estranged Dad on Christmas day Ariana Grande took festive goodwill to heart by chatting to her estranged father in a video call on Christmas day. Queen departs Sandringham after Christmas Day church service Queen and royal family depart Sandringham Church after Christmas Day service Justin Bieber reshaping his sound for new album to reflect spirituality Justin Bieber is reportedly searching for songs that reflect his renewed Christian faith for his new album. The 24-year-old 'Sorry' singer is currently working on his fifth studio album.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.