Correspondent Tristan-Lee Niemand.  (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 19-year-old East London woman, Tristan-Lee Niemand, has been held in a Chinese prison for almost a month, Dispatch Live has reported. Niemand, who was planning to teach English in the country, was reportedly arrested on November 16 for having the incorrect visa to teach English in the city of Nanjing. According to EWN, her mother, Stacey-Lee, is begging authorities to help secure her daughter's release. According to her mother, Tristan-Lee was arrested for not having a work permit to teach in China. This after a recruitment agency had reportedly promised to get her the necessary documents to work legally in the country. Netwerk24 reports that Tristan-Lee is being kept in dire conditions and has not had contact with her parents in East London. Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya confirmed to Die Burger that Tristan-Lee was being held in a Nanjing jail. "She does not have the correct visa to work there," Mabaya reportedly said. News24 attempted to contact Mabaya, but the call went unanswered. Scammed Tristan-Lee's mother told EWN that she had been pleading with the Chinese consulate and South African officials. "She's a South African citizen. When she's there she has a consulate or embassy that's supposed to look after her when she faces trouble, but they have totally blindsided her. They haven't even visited her," she is quoted as saying. In June, the Chinese government released 51 aspiring South African teachers who were stranded in the country after being scammed. Some of the teachers had been in the country since June 2017 and others since April this year. The group had been held in China to testify against their agent, who had brought them from SA to teach in Asia. It is alleged that Owen Wang, who claimed to represent Sanda Youth International, enticed the group to fly to China on study visas, on the understanding that they would get work visas once there. They were detained because they had broken immigration laws, but the Chinese government acknowledged that they had been scammed. Similarly, Netwerk24 reports that Tristan-Lee is being held to testify against recruitment agencies that promise applicants work visas after a training period.   Across the fence: Watching North Korea from China The BBC spent a week along the North Korea-China border and found signs the old alliance remains intact. Blast kills 22 near China factory in Olympic city An explosion and fire near a chemical factory leaves at least 22 people dead and 22 others injured in a northern China city that will host the 2022 Winter Olympics. Many die in blast near China factory in Olympic city An explosion and fire near a chemical factory have left at least 23 people dead and 22 others injured in a northern China city that will host the 2022 Winter Olympics. China's youth embrace street dance amid hip-hop crackdown In China, where children are often saddled with a packed schedule of extracurricular activities before they even enter grade school, some parents are making room for a surprising pursuit: hip-hop dance classes. What can we learn from China in AR/VR? What can we learn from China in AR/VR? China sends written response to U.S. trade demands: sources U.S. government sources say China has sent a written response to American demands it make wide-ranging trade reforms. It's a move that could trigger negotiations to bring an end to a trade war between the world's top economies. Four killed as gunmen attack Chinese consulate in Karachi Security officials gather outside the Chinese consulate in the Pakistani port city of Karachi after it was attacked by unidentified gunmen. China launch mission to far side of the moon China is set to become the first country to explore the far side of the moon after launching a spacecraft in southern China. CSA CEO on SABC's readiness to broadcast MSL Cricket South Africa CEO Thabang Moroe is eager to see how the national broadcaster, the SABC, will provide their coverage of the inaugural Mzansi Super League. What you should know about cruising with MSC Musica in South Africa Gabi Zietsman from Traveller24 visited the MSC Musica in Durban's port for the launch of the summer cruise season in South Africa, and picked up a few tips for first-time passengers. Black Friday chaos captured on camera in South Africa Shoppers in Potchefstroom sprint into Game as the store opens at midnight as Black Friday chaos hits South Africa. Some bargain hunters chose the risky route of climbing over trollies. Waste not: South Africa makes world's first human urine brick One day, when nature calls, your urine could be put to better use than to be flushed down the loo. Instead it could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. Funeral of victims of attack at Chinese consulate in Karachi Mourners attend a funeral in Quetta, the provincial capital and of Balochistan in western Pakistan, for Niaz Muhammad and his son, two of four people killed the previous day when gunmen armed with hand grenades and a suicide vest stormed the Chine... WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. China signs bilateral agreements with Spain in Madrid China signs bilateral agreements with Spain during a three day visit from Chinese President Xi Jinping on his way to a meeting of Group of 20 leaders in Argentina. China, currently engaged in a trade war with the United States, is seeking to stren... AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. New Century’s first zinc shipment to China successful 20 Nov 2018 - New Century Resources (ASX:NCZ) has today announced the successful unloading of its first zinc concentrate shipment in China. China 'confident' about trade war truce China expressed confidence on Wednesday that it can reach a trade deal with the United States, despite fresh warnings from President Donald Trump that he would revert to more tariffs if the two sides cannot resolve their differences. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. Iron From China Follows the journey of iron, from where it is mined from to the plants where the hard work continues as the raw metals are refined and processed. China shows no sign of backing down over trade war China has rejected fresh U.S. accusations of perpetuating "unfair" trade practices, showing little sign of backing down days ahead a high-stakes meeting between leaders from both countries.  As Laura Fryberg reports, the Trump administration has also EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. China tariffs maybe imminent: ASX set to open higher 28 Nov 2018 - The ASX is set to open higher this morning after US stocks declined yesterday when President Donald Trump says he'll push forward with plans to increase tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods. The Australian dollar is up slightly. ... Stocks slump on China exec arrest, trade truce fears Global stock markets slumped for a third day running on Thursday as the arrest of a top executive of Chinese tech giant Huawei in Canada for extradition to the United States fed fears of fresh tensions between the two economic superpowers. Dolce & Gabbana accused of racism in China Dolce & Gabbana cancelled a fashion show in Shanghai after the release of an ad campaign showed a Chinese woman struggling to eat pizza and spaghetti with chopsticks. #Dolce&Gabbana #china #shanghai China goes bananas for world's smelliest fruit China's hungry for durian like never before, sparking a boom for the fruit and sending Malaysia scrambling to develop thousands of acres to cash in on the demand. Stocks surge after China-U.S. trade truce A truce between U.S. and Chinese leaders on trade tariffs provided boosted global markets on Monday, fuelling a nearly one percent surge on world stocks and pushing emerging currencies higher against the dollar.  Ciara Lee reports Anguished search for Vietnam's kidnapped brides sold in China In the mountainous villages of northern Vietnam, most people have a story about bride trafficking. Countless young women have disappeared from the region into neighbouring China, where a massive gender imbalance has fuelled the trade in brides-for... Blast kills at least 22 in northern China A blast near a chemical plant in Zhangjiakou city in China's northern Hebei province has killed 22 people and injured at least 22 others, the local government says. A2 Milk provides update on China's new cross-border e-commerce laws 03 Dec 2018 - Infant formula producer a2 Milk (ASX:A2M) has provided an update on China's new cross-border e-commerce laws. Children lost to China's 'Muslim crackdown' Tens of thousands of Chinese Uighur Muslim families are being torn apart in a crackdown that's seen as many as one million people detained, according to the U.N. Emily Wither speaks to one mother, now in Istanbul, who has lost her children to the sta Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Winter Sports Tips for the Chinese China will be hosting the 2022 Winter Olympics. So its athletes are getting winter sports tips from their Norwegian counterparts and putting everything they've got into bringing their skills up to Scandinavian standards. Kyle Abbott excited to make SA return at Durban Heat Former Proteas bowler Kyle Abbott says he is excited to be back playing cricket in South Africa for the Durban Heat in the Mzansi Super League. VanEck (ASX:CNEW) China New Economy ETF 07 Dec 2018 - MarketGrader CEO & Founder, Carlos Diez talks about the CSI MarketGrader China New Economy Index, the basis of the VanEck Vectors China New Economy ETF (ASX:CNEW), its composition and how it provides ETF investors with exposure to th... China's demand for Durian drives plantation growth in Malaysia Malaysia will be expanding its Durian plantations across thousands of hectares of land, in a bid to meet the rising demand from China. Chinese people have been consuming the smelly fruit in various ways that aren't seen in producing countries.
#Du... China's demand for Durian drives plantation growth in Malaysia Malaysia will be expanding its Durian plantations across thousands of hectares of land, in a bid to meet the rising demand from China. Chinese people have been consuming the smelly fruit in various ways that aren't seen in producing countries.
#Du... 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Hong Kong democracy leaders go on trial over Umbrella Movement Three leading Hong Kong democracy campaigners arrives at court for trial over their involvement in massive rallies calling for political reform, as room for opposition in the semi-autonomous city shrinks under an assertive China. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. Beijing residents react to US-China trade war truce Chinese citizens in Beijing react after China and the US hammered out a deal that will see them hold off on their tit-for-tat tariffs row. The US will not raise levies on Chinese goods on January 1 while China promised to buy more from the US and ... Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. Brexit bites, Wall Street rebounds: Aus shares to open higher 11 Dec 2018 - Australian shares are set to open higher following a recovery on Wall Street. QBE (ASX:QBE) says it has simplified its group portfolio with sale of its insurance operations in Puerto Rico, Indonesia and the Philippines. China cuts duty on U.S. car imports Auto sales in slow lane, low demand and high rates dent autos. Welcome to China's gravity-defying quarry hotel It looks like something out of a James Bond movie - but questions have been asked about the safety of this unusual hotel. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Alibaba's Jack Ma is a Communist Party member, China state paper reveals Jack Ma, the head of e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd and China's best-known capitalist, is a Communist Party member, the official Party newspaper has said, debunking a public assumption the billionaire was politically unattached. Grace Lee   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.