Riaan Grobler WATCH: Andile Mngxitama provides 'context' to "kill white people" statement Black First Land First (BLF) held a press conference on Tuesday to address concerns raised over a statement made by party leader, Andile Mngxitama. WATCH. BLF leader Andile Mngxitama singles out a journalist at a media briefing after his controversial threats at the BLF rally over the weekend.  (Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) on Wednesday said it had received a number of complaints relating to comments Black First Land First (BLF) leader Andile Mngxitama made at a rally on December 8 in Potchefstroom. The commission said it also viewed a video taken at the rally in which Mngxitama told the audience that they would kill white people. He stated that "we will kill their women, we will kill their children, we will kill their dogs, we will kill their cats, we kill anything that comes for us". Earlier this week, the DA reported Mngxitama to the SAHRC and said it was taking him to the Equality Court for his comments against white South Africans. In a statement, DA national spokesperson Solly Malatsi said the party's North West leader, Joe McGluwa, would also lay charges against Mngxitima for incitement of violence. Senior police sources told News24 that the Serious Organised Crime Unit was looking at whether or not it could investigate and charge Mngxitama.  Media Statement: The South African Human Rights Commission confirms that it has received complaints against Mr Andile Mngxitama https://t.co/gjgF4pkXXl  The SAHRC also received multiple complaints through its social media and traditional platforms. "The commission is in the process of registering the complaints against Mr Mngxitama in accordance with its complaints handling procedures for purposes of conducting an investigation into whether or not human rights have been violated and what steps should be taken to secure appropriate redress," the SAHRC said in a statement. "The SAHRC calls on all within South Africa to assist in fostering a constitutional democracy, based on equality, dignity and freedom by refraining from utterances and actions which threaten social cohesion." Meanwhile, trade union Solidarity said it would approach the Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) to file a complaint against Mngxitama to stop his party from participating in next year's elections.   Mngxitama has threatened an "arm struggle" should the IEC deregister his party over his alleged hate speech. He said that comments he made over the weekend in Ikageng in the North West, encouraging his supporters to kill white people, were merely a defence against recent statements made by billionaire Johann Rupert, which he interpreted as an "incitement to violence" against black people. Mngxitama said he would be laying charges of inciting violence against Rupert. ALSO READ: That time a white guy went to Andile Mngxitama's press conference  Thousands of white workers protest Sasol black scheme White employees of Sasol say the South African energy company is discriminating against them by offering a share scheme exclusively to black staff. German minister suggests voluntary colonialism for Africa The African Union has rejected a proposal by a German minister suggesting foreign powers acquire land in Africa to stop migration. #voluntary #colonialism #Africa WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. Winnie Harlow Flags too early at Canadian Grand Prix Top model Winnie Harlow got caught up in some chaos at a recent Grand Prix race in Montreal. Officer charged in black teen’s death An East Pittsburgh police officer has been charged with criminal homicide in the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager that sparked a wave of protests. WATCH: Report shows over six million SA children live below the poverty line Over six million children in South Africa still live below the food poverty line, according to the Child Gauge 2018 report released on Tuesday. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. Why a black man hugged a neo-Nazi skinhead A white supremacist walked into the middle of an anti-fascist rally - this is what happened next. S. Africa sets path to seize white farmers' land South Africa's president is pushing legislation that will allow the government to seize private property without compensating the owner. Expropriation is an emotive subject in the country, where only four percent of land is in black hands over two... US mum claims racial profiling at pool A black woman claims a white man asked her to show identification to prove she belonged to a pool. Nigeria clash will be 'tough' - Baxter South Africa prepared in Johannesburg on Friday (16th November) for their AFCON 2019 qualifier against Group E leaders Nigeria. Rihanna makes history as new 'British Vogue Cover Girl' Rihanna has officially cemented her place in British Vogue history as the first black woman to be featured on the cover of the magazine's September issue. Rihanna the first black woman on cover of Vogue's September issue Pop superstar Rihanna has been unveiled as the cover star for British Vogue's September issue. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Waste not: South Africa makes world's first human urine brick One day, when nature calls, your urine could be put to better use than to be flushed down the loo. Instead it could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. Black Friday chaos captured on camera in South Africa Shoppers in Potchefstroom sprint into Game as the store opens at midnight as Black Friday chaos hits South Africa. Some bargain hunters chose the risky route of climbing over trollies. Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... 'Black people think I have white privilege' Albino model Joanne Dion struggles to fit into black or white communities. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. Does the royal wedding improve race relations in the UK? Anti-racism campaigner Adam Elliot-Cooper talks about the contradictions of the royal wedding. Does the introduction of Meghan Markle to the royal family have an impact to ordinary black people on the ground? 'Do Not Touch My Hair' Grazia is the latest UK magazine to be criticised for airbrushing the hair of black women. Lupita Nyong'o complained she'd been made to appear more "Eurocentric" on the front cover Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. French President meets South African President at G20 summit French President Emannuel Macron meets South African President Cyril Ramaphosa during G20 summit in Buenos Aires. Black arm wrestler's big fight Arm wrestler Bonginkosi Madonsela says he is on a mission to bring the sport to the black community in South Africa. The most powerful black person in the UK Gina Miller, the campaigner who won a Brexit legal challenge against the government, has been named as the country's most influential black person. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. SA farmers 'sadistic and racist' - judge Two white farmers who forced a black man into a coffin "intended to kill the victim", says judge. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.