Tammy Petersen Gerbrandt Kotze (Supplied to News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders. Watch.WATCH For two years Amanda Kotze  hoped for a miracle, praying her son would fulfil his dream of completing his master's degree to accomplish his goal of teaching young people about the wonders of science. The miracle she will experience on Tuesday is not the one she had been hoping for, but an alternative she will gladly accept as she walks across the stage at Stellenbosch University to accept Gerbrandt Kotze's MSc degree on his behalf. The promising student died of colon cancer that spread to his liver two weeks before his parents were informed that his MSc thesis had passed. He was 26 years old. Gerbrandt, who grew up in Paarl, was diagnosed after falling ill in April 2016. Kotze speaks proudly of her son, who continued with his studies while undergoing chemotherapy. 'A beautiful heart' "He was so determined. It was very important to him to finish his master's. He knew what he wanted in life," his mother said fondly. "We trusted God for a miracle. But it's happening differently to what we expected." Gerbrandt studied under the guidance of Dr Rehana Malgas-Enus of the RME-Nano research group in inorganic chemistry at the department of chemistry and polymer science. Malgas-Enus founded a programme which helps pupils from underprivileged schools excel in science, Kotze explained. Gerbrandt was an active assistant, eager to teach young people about the marvels of his field. "He cared about people and he had a beautiful heart. He was just a lekker mens," Kotze recalled affectionately. He had hoped to enter the classroom and become a science teacher like his older brother, who has his BSc. Honours degree in Nuclear Physics. Special gathering to celebrate He practiced his teaching skills on his younger sister, 10, an abandoned baby the family adopted as an infant. "He loved her and always helped her with her maths," Amanda reminisced. Her son, who she describes as quiet but with a sharp sense of humour, was buried a day after what would have been his 27th birthday. "We felt hopeless, but had the brainwave to rather turn that sad occasion into a remembrance day. We asked all who attended to bring food which we gave to a children's home. He would have liked that," she said. Amanda admits that walking across the stage to collect the reward of her son's hard work will be daunting, but says she's up to the challenge. "I've asked my husband to wait on the other side of the stage. It will be a long walk, but an honour to do it on his behalf." And they will celebrate the achievement with a special gathering afterward, tucking into chocolate brownies, mousse cake or milkshake – her "phenomenal" son's favourites. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. Rolene Strauss on her first album: 'I'm sharing a lot of personal things' Former Miss World Rolene Strauss talks to Channel24 about her brand-new spoken word album, Secrets to My Growth. WATCH: Dancing to a new tune at the Hillbrow music school The youth of the inner-city community of Hillbrow can find solace in music, thanks to Amisi "Coco" Mubale and the Hillbrow Music Centre. Watch. Students and police clash in Venezuelan university protest Venezuelan university students clash with police during a protest against President Nicolas Maduro and his government on Students' Day. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH: Suicide scourge forces students to march for better mental health support Around 100 students held a silent march through the University of Pretoria's main campus on Thursday.

This follows 23 reported attempted suicides by students at the institution in 2018 alone. Students attend 'world's first' live hologram lecture at Imperial College London Imperial College London will start offering lectures with live holographic guests after debuting the technology to students on Thursday evening. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. Former university peer describes Anjem Choudary Former university peer describes Anjem Choudary Hundreds accuse ex-USC gynecologist of sex abuse Nearly 100 more women have come forward alleging they were sexually harrassed or abused by a longtime former gynecologist at the University of Southern California. There are now more than 400 claims against the school for allegedly covering up and co David Oyelowo receives honourary doctorate in London Actor David Oyelowo has just received an honourary doctorate degree from London's South Bank University. University building implosion University building implosion. Rwandan entrepreneur turns her beetroot into red wine An unemployed Rwandan woman has started an international business selling homemade beetroot wine. Donald Trump says the US will 'spare no effort' in Florida response Donald Trump says the US will 'spare no effort' in the response to Hurricane Michael, that has hit Florida.

He made the comments while at a rally in Erie, Pennsylvania.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.