Correspondent President Cyril Ramaphosa (Gallo Images/Veli Nhlapo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the keynote address on Sunday at the national Day of Reconciliation celebration at the Walter Sisulu University Stadium in Mthatha, Eastern Cape, the Presidency said in a statement. "The 2018 Day of Reconciliation marks the 24th anniversary of this national day and will be celebrated under the theme: 'The year of Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu: Liberators for reconciliation'." According to the statement, Day of Reconciliation aims to promote national unity, social cohesion, constitutional democracy, human rights and equality by highlighting and advancing the constitutional values and principles that bind together all South Africans. Rallying point "This year’s commemoration of Day of Reconciliation is a highlight of the year in which South Africa and the global community have observed the centenary of the birth of founding president Nelson Mandela and struggle stalwart Mama Albertina Sisulu, who for most of their lives fought to advance human rights, unity and racial and gender equality in South Africa. "Day of Reconciliation will also be a rallying point for the #IAMTHE FLAG campaign, launched earlier this month by Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa to highlight the importance of our national symbols and to encourage South Africans to embrace the national flag as an element of reconciliation among all South Africans." The presidency said the national flag is one of symbols that represent South African values, the struggle for liberation and aspirations for a better South Africa. It also characterises diversity, unity and pride as a nation. "The December 16 celebrations will be attended by communities from all over the Eastern Cape and other parts of South Africa and gates to the venue will open at 08:00. "The programme for the day includes a cultural programme with performances by range of artists and groups."  President @CyrilRamaphosa will on Sunday, 16 December 2018, deliver the keynote address at the national Day of Reconciliation celebration to be held at the Walter Sisulu University Stadium in Mthatha, Eastern Cape. https://t.co/Gn8UVXUB6r     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.