Kaveel Singh EFF leader Julius Malema. (Gallo Images / Alaister Russell) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The SA National Editors Forum (Sanef) has lodged a complaint in the Equality Court against the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and its leader Julius Malema, in an attempt to stop them harassing and threatening journalists. Sanef says it has approached the court in defence of media freedom and that it is seeking protection against sustained intimidation and threats against journalists by Malema and his supporters. The body, and a number of senior journalists and editors, are also calling for an apology from Malema and his party. Along with the apology, Sanef is seeking an interdict that will prevent Malema and the EFF from intimidating, harassing, threatening or assaulting journalists. This includes acts of intimidation or harassment on any platforms, including social media. It has also sought to prevent Malema or his party from publishing journalists' personal information. In a statement, Sanef said it "did not take this decision to institute legal action against the EFF lightly". It noted that, while it believed in "the South African way of resolving disputes around a table", attempts to meet the party and its leadership had been unsuccessful. Sanef's lawyers lodged the complaint with the Equality Court on Tuesday. The papers contain several affidavits from a number of journalists - including Ranjeni Munusamy, News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson and Max du Preez - who have been intimidated and threatened in recent months. In her affidavit, Munusamy complained that she had to block Malema on Twitter because, whenever he directed anything toward her, she would bear the brunt of his supporters' wrath. She raised concerns after Malema called on supporters to "visit journalists in their homes for evidence and motive". 'Worried about my safety and the safety of my family' Munusamy also claimed that State security operatives had told her she was in physical danger. The Tiso Blackstar associate editor was also harassed by three men while shopping near her home. "While shopping, I noticed three men looking at me. As I walked past them, they repeatedly called my surname in a mocking tone. I tried to ignore them, walking past them quickly. They were waiting for me at the entrance of the shop when I left." Basson said he was also deeply offended after Malema tweeted that he would meet with Sanef if they didn't bring "racist things like your white boy", referring to Basson. He said he did not understand why Malema would call him this. He said the only reason he could think of was a column he had written two days earlier criticising the politician. Basson said he was now more careful with his public movements after what had happened to Munusamy. "I have become worried about my safety and the safety of my family. I do not mind being criticised, even harshly so, but Mr Malema's comments encourage attacks on me and other journalists." He added: "While a journalist can reasonably be expected to have a thick skin, the scale, extent and abusiveness of the inflammatory commentary I have had to endure is overwhelming and caused me to be very fearful for my physical safety." 'They have a campaign against the EFF' Responding to the complaint, EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said the party and Malema were not attacking freedom of speech. He said that there was a group of journalists, including Basson and Munusamy, who attacked the EFF through opinion pieces and editorials. This meant that the journalists should also be open to public criticism, he said. "This is not journalism. They have a campaign against the EFF. All they write are these opinion and editorial pieces. You cannot hide behind that. That is an abuse of journalistic tools. These people are not on the ground writing stories. Therefore, they are campaigning." He added: "They have lots of analysis and opinion, for what? Why direct so many of these toward the EFF? That is not journalism. They come into the political arena when they do this. When we come for them, they want to raise the curtain of journalism. They are not writing or doing journalism." WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. WATCH: Malema lays charges against Pravin Gordhan EFF leader Julius Malema opened a case of money laundering and corruption against Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan files criminal charges against Malema Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan filed criminal defamation, crimen injuria and incitement of violence charges against EFF leader Julius Malema on Monday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. LUNCHTIME ANALYSIS: News24 unpacks Gordhan's #StateCapture revelation Watch as Pieter du Toit, News24 assistant editor of in-depth news, and journalist Tshidi Madia unpack Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordha's revelations at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day 1/Part 1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: Debonairs Pizza shop threatened with closure over working conditions A video has surfaced of social activist and former EFF Students' Command leader Mpho Morolane embroiled in a heated exchange with a Debonairs franchise owner. WATCH: EFF expected to address VBS claims The Economic Freedom Fighters will on Tuesday address the media on the VBS Mutual Bank report released by the South African Reserve Bank last, titled The Great Bank Heist. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Malema mocks Gigaba? 'We are not playing with ourselves, we are playing music' A video of Julius Malema is circulating on social media in which the EFF leader seemingly mocks Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.