Sesona Ngqakamba Prophet Paseka 'Mboro' Motsoeneng of the Incredible Happenings Ministries. (Veli Nhlapo, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg has ordered the Ministry of Police to pay self-proclaimed Prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng R100 000 in damages for unlawfully arresting and detaining him in 2011. Acting Judge D Makhoba also ordered that the ministry pay interest to Motsoeneng from the date of the service of the summons to the date of payment. "I am of the view that a fair and appropriate award of damages for the plaintiff's unlawful arrest and detention is an amount of R100 000," Makhoba said. He found that Motsoeneng had been arrested for an improper motive. ALSO READ: Pay for my legal bills, birthday gift or else - Pastor Mboro warns congregants Makhoba said the court took all the relevant facts into account, including Motsoeneng's status, age, the circumstances of his arrest, and his social and professional standing. Motsoeneng's lawyer Andries Grovè said Motsoeneng was arrested at a shopping mall where some of his church members were carrying firearms. Grovè said Motsoeneng was held for 11 hours on a charge of carrying an illegal firearm, which he did not have in his possession. After the ruling, the lawyer said they would study the judgment further and decide what the next step would be.  The Johannesburg High Court will at 10:35 hand down judgment in the lawsuit brought by Incredible Happenings Ministries leader, Prophet Paseka Mboro Motsoeneng against the Ministry of Police, for an unlawful arrest and detention.@TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/CWATN5sFeE  "Obviously the judge considered 11 factors when he made the judgment. Whether it's on the low end or not, we're still going to decide and we will take it from there." Donation to Alexandra fire victims Motsoeneng said the lawsuit was not about the money, but about getting justice for being wrongfully arrested. "For me, it is not really just about money because we didn't sue for financial losses. If you calculate that, that is millions, but we just left that one. It is about judgment and unlawful arrest because there are people spending time in jail for things they didn't do. Some are being framed," Motsoeneng said. He said the arrest was humiliating for him but he was now happy that it had concluded in his favour. Motsoeneng added that he would use some of the funds to make a donation to victims of last week's fire in Alexandra, near Sandton.  SC questions Verma's counsel The Supreme Court today asked what was the protocol if a CBI chief was caught red-handed taking bribes and questioned whether such a chief deserved to continue even for a minute if he was. Attempted bomb attack at home of senior Greek prosecutor Greek police early Tuesday defused a bomb left outside of the Athens home of a controversial senior prosecutor, a police source say. Supreme Court deputy prosecutor Isidoros Dogiakos in 2013 had overseen the high-profile investigation that put lea... Manafort found guilty on eight of 18 charges Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort was found guilty on Tuesday on eight charges of tax and bank fraud and failing to disclose foreign bank accounts, after a jury said it could not reach consensus on the other 10 charges against him. Cosby arrives for sentencing hearing Bill Cosby, once known as ‘America’s dad,’ arrived for his sentencing hearing on a sexual assault conviction, Monday. Cosby became the first celebrity convicted of a sex crime since the emergence of the #MeToo movement last year. Tommy Robinson freed after winning contempt of court challenge Former English Defence League leader Tommy Robinson has been freed on bail by leading judges after winning his challenge against a contempt of court finding. Expected star witness may not testify in Trump ex-aide Manafort's trial U.S. prosecutors raised the possibility on Wednesday that an expected star witness may not testify against President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort even as the judge tried to rein in their portrayal of Manafort's lavish life... New charges against Manafort and a Russian operative U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller filed new criminal charges on Friday against President Donald Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort while also indicting a longtime associate of Manafort's with alleged ties to Russian intelligence. Trump ex-campaign head Manafort to cooperate with Russia probe U.S. President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort will cooperate with Special Counsel Robert Mueller's probe of Russian election meddling as part of a plea deal, prosecutors told a federal court in Washington on Friday. Jury selection changes part of feds planned justice reforms Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould says new legislation aimed at overhauling the justice system proposes changes to make juries "more representative" of the population, and to increase penalties for intimate partner violence. WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. Poland's top judge defies order to quit Polish judge Malgorzata Gersdorf walked into the Supreme Court building on Wednesday, defying new legislation forcing her to retire as court president, and putting the judiciary on a collision course with the government. Judge calls surprise recess in Manafort case Judge T.S. Ellis called a surprise recess in the trial of former Donald Trump aide Paul Manafort Friday, making it unlikely the prosecution would wrap its case. Bank CEO pressed for Manafort loans A witness testified that a Chicago-based bank CEO tried to help Paul Manafort get $16 million in loans in exchange for a position in the Trump administration. Maldives crisis: Former president arrested in opposition crackdown Maldives opposition leader and two Supreme Court judges have been arrested after the government declared a state of emergency.

The charges against opposition leader Maumoon Abdul Gayoom include bribery and attempting to overthrow the government. Couple, homeless man charged in GoFundMe scam Authorities say a New Jersey couple and a homeless man made up a "feel good" story about the man helping them so they could raise money through an online fundraiser. Supreme Court of India decriminalises homosexuality In a historic verdict, the Supreme Court on Thursday decriminalised homosexuality between consenting adults by declaring Section 377, the penal provision which criminalised gay sex, as "manifestly arbitrary". Ranveer lauds LGBT verdict says Karan can enjoy The Supreme Court earlier passed a landmark judgement on Section 377 by decriminalising homosexuality, actor Ranveer Signh lauded the decision and jokingly hinted that filmmaker Karan Johar can now enjoy his 'dessert'. Ranveer, who came as guest t... Auto Industry faces challenges after SC Verdict Ongoing debate in the Supreme Court has created huge ambiguity and policy uncertainty. India's top court rules in favour of biometric ID system India's Supreme Court has ruled in favour of a government program that stores the information of its billion-plus citizens. But private corporations will no longer be able to access the data.
#india #id #aadhaar Supreme Court rules in favour of bakery in ‘gay cake' case Supreme Court rules in favour of bakery in ‘gay cake' case New twist from Sahara-SEBI slugfest Sahara Group to move Supreme Court against SEBI, demands Rs. 14, 000 Cr. NDP calls for Supreme Court reference over Trans Mountain dispute NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh is calling for a Supreme Court reference question from B.C. and Ottawa to help resolve the dispute over the Trans Mountain pipeline expansion. Singh says a joint reference is an "efficient way" forward. WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. Raptors' Kyle Lowry gives 'kudos' for van attack arrest Raptors guard Kyle Lowry says the arresting officer in Monday's Toronto van attack did an "amazing" job not using his firearm to take the suspect into custody. Alek Minassian was arrested after a brief sidewalk standoff. . WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? Video shows alleged El Chapo drug tunnel Prosecutors have started presenting evidence to jurors in the trial of the notorious drug smuggler known as El Chapo by giving them a video tour of a tunnel between Mexico and an Arizona warehouse. ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa appoints advocate Shamila Batohi as new NPA boss President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced advocate Shamila Batohi as the new head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Lawson Naidoo, joins News24 opinions editor Alet Janse van Rensburg and News24 editor-in-chief in studio for analysis. Nissan seeks to block former chairman Ghosn from his apartment Nissan is seeking to block its former chairman Carlos Ghosn, arrested and removed from his role for alleged financial misconduct, from his apartment in Rio de Janeiro. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. Deutsche Bank offices raided in money laundering probe Roughly 170 criminal police officers, prosecutors and tax inspectors have searched six Deutsche Bank offices in and around Frankfurt on money allegations.  As Sonia Legg reports, news of the raids sent shares down almost three percent. Prosecutors indict Nissan, Ghosn: reports Tokyo prosecutors have indicted Nissan along with its ousted Chairman Carlos Ghosn, according to domestic media. Judge dismisses Stormy Daniels lawsuit against Trump A U.S. judge has dismissed adult film actress Stormy Daniels’s defamation lawsuit against President Donald Trump and has ordered her to pay his attorney’s fees, saying a tweet the president had written referring to her was protected by free-speech laws. David Duckenfield to face 95 manslaughter charges over Hillsborough fans' deaths Hillsborough match commander David Duckenfield is to face trial for the alleged manslaughter by gross negligence of 95 Liverpool supporters after a judge lifted a stay on his prosecution. U.S. judge affirms Monsanto weed-killer verdict, slashes damages A U.S. judge has affirmed a verdict against Bayer AG unit Monsanto that found its glyphosate-based weed-killers responsible for a man’s terminal cancer, sending the German company's shares down 8 percent.  Francis Maguire reports 'A landmark case in how courts approach cheating' London casino which withheld GBP7.7m in winnings says Supreme Court decision found top player was "cheating and dishonest". Reuters journalists being handed seven-year jail term Reuters journalists left a court in Yangon after a Myanmar judge found them guilty of breaching a law on state secrets and sentenced them to seven years in prison. WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder Christian bakers win 'gay cake' Supreme Court appeal Supreme Court judge Lady Hale announces the owners of a bakery in Belfast have won a Supreme Court appeal over a finding that they discriminated against a customer by refusing to make a cake decorated with the words "Support Gay Marriage". People line up outside court ahead of Huawei bail decision People lining up outside court ahead of a bail decision for Meng Wanzhou, a top executive of Chinese telecom giant Huawei who is seeking release from detention on health grounds, as Beijing calculates its protests over her arrest on a US warrant. ... MJ Akbar tenders his resignation MoS External affairs has resigned from his post . He has decided to seek justice in the court of law regarding the accusations made against him. Man who lodged two jihadists faces appeals trial in France Jawad Bendaoud arrives in court, as prosecutors appeal a decision to release him, after he housed two jihadists following the November 2015 Paris attacks. Charged and Disbarred - Part 7 Marc Stuart Dreier, is a former American lawyer who was sentenced to 20 years in federal prison Indonesian woman gets jail after exposing philandering boss An Indonesian woman who exposed her cheating boss has been slapped with a six-month jail term for her trouble. The supreme court's shock ruling overturned an earlier court decision that had cleared the woman, Baiq Nuril Maknun, of breaking a contr... Michael Avenatti arrested, released in Los Angeles Attorney Michael Avenatti has been released from police custody following his arrest on a felony domestic violence charge in Los Angeles. Trump: Federal courts in Ninth Circuit 'very unfair' President Donald Trump is railing against federal courts in the Ninth Circuit, describing them as 'very unfair' after a federal judge in Northern Calif. blocked Trump's emergency restrictions on asylum claims. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. Charged and Disbarred - Part 13 Ken Anderson was appointed to the court in 2002 by Governor Rick Perry. He resigned from his position on September 23, 2013 after he was arrested for withholding exculpatory evidence Charged and Disbarred - Part 3 Bradley Slowgrove, former barrister for an accused Serbian war criminal, has been struck off for attempting to intimidate a magistrate   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.