Ntwaagae Seleka WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. (Christopher Moagi, Daily Sun) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. The Gauteng education department says the incident happened five months ago at Lewisham Primary School in Krugersdorp. However, Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi visited the school on Thursday after the video was circulated. In it, a Grade 7 pupil dressed in school uniform could be seen pulling a male teacher towards him, while a female teacher tried to reprimand the pupil. "Leave the teacher, leave the teacher," the teacher screamed as she intervened. "Don't touch me, man. You stink. Did you bath this morning?... This rubbish," the pupil shouted as the male teacher walked away. The pupil then screamed at the woman, demanding that she let him go so he can leave. Lesufi steps in Lesufi has appointed an inter-departmental assessment team, comprising officials from the district, the Department of Social Development, the psycho-social unit, inclusion and special schools, and education support.    The team is to conduct an assessment focusing on the pupil's well-being and his academic progress. It is to identify a relevant school for him. READ: High school pupil arrested for attempting to stab fellow pupils "The Grade 7 learner was at the time suspended and taken through a disciplinary process which recommended an expulsion. A process to interact with the child's parents has commenced. The appointed team must provide a report with appropriate recommendations to the MEC on December 11 for necessary action," departmental spokesperson Steve Mabona said. The department condemned the pupil's behaviour and said it had a zero-tolerance stance towards all forms of misconduct. "We urge learners to refrain from any acts of misdemeanour." 'Our people shouldn't have to travel hours to work' - Ramaphosa launches Atlantis economic hub "Our people shouldn't have to travel for hours and hours to work." That was the message from President Cyril Ramaphosa at the launch of the Atlantis Special Economic Zone in Cape Town on Thursday. WATCH: Worker takes Eskom labour brokers to court Witness Chauke is not afraid to speak truth to power. He says it was for this reason that his contract was terminated. He was the chairman of his group of (NUMSA) members at Eskom before his contract was terminated. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: Behind the scenes at the De Hoek plaza The De Hoek Plaza located in Heidelburg, Gauteng, on a normal day in December 5, 2017 saw 715 motor vehicles pass the tolls at 3pm and saw 2,621 motor vehicles pass through its lanes on it busiest day December 22, 2017, during the same hour. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. VIDEO: Activists march 80kms from Marikana to Union Buildings demanding compensation for widows Two groups marched to the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Wednesday. The groups requested President Cyril Ramaphosa receive their memoranda who failed to appear. WATCH. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. WATCH: Quick-thinking motorist leaves hijackers empty-handed A video of a failed hijacking attempt in Johannesburg has surfaced on social media on Tuesday. WATCH: Fireworks suspected as general dealer goes up in smoke in Pretoria A general dealer lost everything after his shop went up in flames on Tuesday afternoon just as the busy Christmas shopping period begins. WATCH: Free State police department confirms sleeping traffic cop is 'on medication' The Free State Department of Police, Roads and Transport has responded to a viral video of a traffic officer apparently caught sleeping on the job. WATCH: Empowerment workshop brings out the Mandela in Cape Town youth In honour of Mandela Day, young people from around Cape Town were invited to a youth empowerment workshop at Cape Town Civic Centre on Tuesday. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa appoints advocate Shamila Batohi as new NPA boss President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced advocate Shamila Batohi as the new head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Lawson Naidoo, joins News24 opinions editor Alet Janse van Rensburg and News24 editor-in-chief in studio for analysis. WATCH: CCTV emerges of Sasol garage chaos as thugs target Global Citizens concertgoers What was supposed to be an exciting ending to a day filled with international entertainment, turned out to be a horrific ordeal for concertgoers outside the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg on Sunday evening. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: Cape Town bicycle shop looted by rowdy revellers Festivities in the Cape Town CBD turned to looting, with one group causing damages of nearly R170 000 in mere minutes.

Rook Cycles in Long Street has shared CCTV footage of the looting on their Facebook page. DOCUMENTARY | Buried Truth: Unearthing the story of murdered farmworker Adam Pieterse "He wasn't just a drifter, a farmworker that nobody cared about. He was Mannetjies, my brother and the way he was killed just wasn't right," his sister told News24, shortly after a Lutzville farmer was convicted of using a spade to beat him to death. WATCH: Woman says police forced motorist to withdraw money at road block A video of an altercation between police officers and a woman at the Honeydew police station has gone viral. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  