Riaan Grobler Tristan-Lee Niemand with her father Richard Bridger shortly before she departed for China. (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "I'm ecstatic, I'm over the moon!" That was the reaction of Richard Bridger – father of Tristan-Lee Niemand, 19, who has been in a Chinese prison since November 16 – when News24 contacted him following the news that she would be released. After a harrowing month, Bridger, a professional hunter, received the news at around noon on Tuesday. Niemand and six other South Africans will be released from prison in China and will be deported to South Africa, the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) said on Tuesday. "The South African mission in Shanghai has informed the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu that the seven South African nationals in Jiangsu province have completed their detention period and will be released and deported back to South Africa," department spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya said. Bridger told News24 it was uncertain exactly when Niemand would be back in the country, but said it "should be by Sunday". His daughter, who was planning to teach English in that country, was arrested on November 16 for having the incorrect visa to teach English in the city of Nanjing. Detained South Africans to return home #TristanLeeNiemand https://t.co/PgGUDiU0Hh pic.twitter.com/vlVtFGqbMM A court in Nanjing has since ordered the deportation of Niemand and her fellow teachers. The only hold-up is that the school that employed them – and which was also meant to arrange the correct visas for them, according to Bridger – has to supply them with return plane tickets to South Africa. School being 'punished' "The delay is basically until the tickets are confirmed," Bridger said. "I offered to pay for the ticket myself, but it looks like it's a punishment for the school (to pay for the tickets)." Bridger has still had no contact with his daughter. "According to people there, the conditions in prison are very poor and the food is bad. "She is not an experienced world traveller. That's why she used an agent – she did everything she was supposed to do." Bridger told News24 the agency and school appear to be "a fraud". "It has been the worst week of my life, it was traumatic." Bridger says he was even contacted by "scam artists" attempting to elicit payment from him for information about his daughter. Following Niemand's arrest, the family started a Backabuddy page to raise funds for legal fees, food and toiletries for the duration of her detention. The family also needs to refund a student teacher who has been sending Niemand money for food. Mabaya told News24 on Wednesday that Niemand and the others would be released and deported as per international protocol, meaning that they would stay in custody until travel arrangements have been made. "Therefore we don't know when they'll be back because we're not responsible for the travel arrangements. "The school that employed them has been ordered by the court to arrange the plane tickets." Mabaya said Dirco was monitoring the situation, as well as the deportation of eight South Africans who have been in distress in Zhejiang province. They are expected to return to South Africa on Sunday.  Building Africa's Technology Ecosystem Building Africa's Technology Ecosystem China's demand for Durian drives plantation growth in Malaysia Malaysia will be expanding its Durian plantations across thousands of hectares of land, in a bid to meet the rising demand from China. Chinese people have been consuming the smelly fruit in various ways that aren't seen in producing countries.
#Du... China's demand for Durian drives plantation growth in Malaysia Malaysia will be expanding its Durian plantations across thousands of hectares of land, in a bid to meet the rising demand from China. Chinese people have been consuming the smelly fruit in various ways that aren't seen in producing countries.
#Du... The Top 5 Best Art & Cultural Museums in Africa Africa has no shortage of heritage, history and culture. And where better soak in all this knowledge than of of Africa's many incredible art and cultural museums? Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Carmakers eye further growth in Africa after Kenyan Uber deal Auto companies such as Suzuki are linking up with fast-growing ride-hailing services like Uber, in an attempt to transform a threat to their business into a growth opportunity. Blockchain's Potential in Africa with Olugbenga Agboola (Flutterwave), Omolara Awoyemi (SureGroup) a As crypto fever gripped many leading economies in 2018, Africa was shaping its own blockchain narrative—one more grounded in utility than speculation. Over the last year, the continent saw several ICOs and token launches. And use cases for blockch... Bettr at the Startup Battlefield Finals | Battlefield Africa 2018 Bettr is a virtual banking experience powered by your smartphone and your data. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. Togo: protesters vent frustration at political situation As thousands of opposition supporters march through the streets of Lomé, a few of them tell of their frustrations at the current political situation in Togo as well as what they perceive as failures on the part of the Economic Community of West Af... Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. World Bank cuts Sub-Saharan Africa growth forecast The World Bank has dropped its 2018 economic growth forecast for Sub-Saharan Africa, partly blaming sluggish growth in some of the region's bigger economies. Story behind the Berm, the world's second longest wall The world's second longest wall, located in the Western Sahara, known as the Berm, is made of sand and manned by more than 120,000 Moroccan soldiers. The wall separates the Moroccan-annexed and controlled areas on the west from the Polisario-contr... Art on the road The Molue Mobile Museum of Contemporary Art is an art space on wheels. The decommissioned school bus journeyed through West African countries, arriving in Dakar for the launch of the DAK'ART festival. Africa Weekly - a round up of news and features from Africa This week on Africa Weekly, take you to Burkina Faso where female prisoners have no other choice but to keep their infants alongside them in detention and we travel to Tunisia to the southern island of Djerba where the dead face discrimination wit... Benin welcomes call for France to return treasures African museum directors welcome an expert report calling on France to allow the return of thousands of African treasures and artworks, a radical policy shift that could put pressure on other former colonial powers. Calls have been growing in Afri... From bullied to beloved: Burkina Faso's strongest man Cheick Ahmed Al-Hassan Sanou, known as Iron Biby, is one of the strongest men in the world. Originally from Burkina Faso, he says he wants to inspire young people in his home country to follow their athletic dreams. Africa Weekly - a round up of news and features from Africa This week on Africa Weekly, this week on Africa Weekly, we take you to Ghana’s Atewa Range Forest Reserve, renowned for its world-leading biodiversity, but believed to be under threat due to the presence of bauxite beneath the soil. And we travel ... 8 years after the Tunisian Revolution In the eight years since the Tunisian Revolution inspired a pro-democracy uprising around the Arab world, Tunisia has gone through many challenging years. But where does it stand today?
#Tunisia #Arabspring Trend Solar | Battlefield Africa 2018 Trend Solar has assimilated a 4G Android Smartphone and Solar Home System to provide affordable access to energy, internet, and mobile in an all-in-one solution that seeks to address the needs of 640 million+ people currently living off-grid in Su... Trendsolar | Battlefield Africa 2018 Trend Solar has assimilated a 4G Android Smartphone and Solar Home System to provide affordable access to energy, internet, and mobile in an all-in-one solution that seeks to address the needs of 640 million+ people currently living off-grid in Su... Reporter - The First Female Mayor of Tunis Souad Abderrahim has caused a sensation in the Arab world. She is the first woman ever to be elected as mayor of a capital city in the region. Abderrahim faces many challenges. Kyle Abbott excited to make SA return at Durban Heat Former Proteas bowler Kyle Abbott says he is excited to be back playing cricket in South Africa for the Durban Heat in the Mzansi Super League. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. German minister suggests voluntary colonialism for Africa The African Union has rejected a proposal by a German minister suggesting foreign powers acquire land in Africa to stop migration. #voluntary #colonialism #Africa Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... Singing and dancing as Cyril Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa has been elected as South Africa's new president and celebrations followed the announcement in the South African Parliament. What are a South African? Cape Town-based Wine Flies in South Africa is offering a new tour that dives into what makes up the identity of a South African through history, heritage and cuisine. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. 'You want me sacked' Eddie Jones fumes after England win Reaction from head coach Eddie Jones after England beat South Africa 12-11 in their rugby union international at Twickenham on Saturday (3rd November). Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. Ethiopia accepts UN peace deal with Eritrea In what is Africa's longest war, Ethiopia is now seeking peace with Eritrea after PM Abiy Ahmed extended an olive branch to the neighbouring country. French President meets South African President at G20 summit French President Emannuel Macron meets South African President Cyril Ramaphosa during G20 summit in Buenos Aires. WATCH: Temperatures to increase after parts of SA experience heavy rain and snowfall South Africans in eastern regions of the country were forced to pack away their shorts and sandals because of icy temperatures. Watch the video above to see snowy scenes across South Africa. Black Friday chaos captured on camera in South Africa Shoppers in Potchefstroom sprint into Game as the store opens at midnight as Black Friday chaos hits South Africa. Some bargain hunters chose the risky route of climbing over trollies. What you should know about cruising with MSC Musica in South Africa Gabi Zietsman from Traveller24 visited the MSC Musica in Durban's port for the launch of the summer cruise season in South Africa, and picked up a few tips for first-time passengers. CSA CEO on SABC's readiness to broadcast MSL Cricket South Africa CEO Thabang Moroe is eager to see how the national broadcaster, the SABC, will provide their coverage of the inaugural Mzansi Super League. Behind-the-scenes with Hollywood star Lynn Whitfield in South Africa Channel24 meets with Hollywood actress Lynn Whitfield in South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.