Sesona Ngqakamba LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Agri SA’s president Dan Kriek briefs the media on the Parliamentary debate and the decision to approve the motion to allow for expropriation without compensation. (Sesona Ngqakamba, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Agricultural industry association Agri SA says it "will leave no stone unturned in protecting the interests of farmers" and the agricultural sector it represents. The association said this in a media briefing on Wednesday, where it maintained that it would continue to pursue all credible avenues to protect farmers, and vowed to challenge the amendment of Section 25 of the Constitution in court. "We are on record that we were against the expropriation without compensation, right from the beginning, and that is still our stance," Agri SA president Dan Kriek said. Kriek said expropriation of land would have a negative effect on international investments. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. "I cannot see how this is positive for international investors, and that is extremely worrisome," he said. Kriek said the Constitution could not be easily changed as it had to protect the people against the excesses of politicians. He said they would not allow for their anti-expropriation stance to be seen as anti-transformation, as they were heavily involved in the process. #LandExpropriation Dan Kriek summarizes AgriSA's stance that they "WILL NOT ALLOW FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION". (@Sesona_Ngqaks) pic.twitter.com/3bxvbbDh6f  "There are two things that we will not allow; we will not allow for the Constitution to be amended for political reasons. Secondly, we will not allow that position to be construed as us being not progressive, and anti-progressive," Kriek said. Agri SA said this following Tuesday’s vote in the National Assembly to adopt the Joint Constitutional Review Committee’s (CRC) report, which recommended that the Constitution be amended to allow for the expropriation of land without compensation. 'We want to be part of the solution' Altogether 209 MPs voted in favour of the adoption of the report, while 91 opposed it. There were no abstentions. Kriek said the African National Congress and Parliament had disregarded the "best" research on land expropriation. READ: National Assembly adopts report on land expropriation without compensation "If you want to change the Constitution, you got to do some research. What is disturbing in this instance is that Parliament did the best research on the topic and the best research available is the Motlanthe high-level report - page 200 to 300 - and that is the best report…" Kriek said. Agri SA deputy president Pierre Vercueil added that what was happening would have an impact on the asset value of farms and that would have an impact on new farmers. "We do not need policies that are actually going to cause the negative effect and have a result that new farmers would not be successful in their start of business," he said. Vercueil said they believed that land reform had to happen, but that it would be impossible if the government created a climate where the investment value of the land would disappear. "We want to be part of the solution, we have to be part of the solution. We want to see new farmers settle in agriculture. We are involved in internships, we are involved in mentorships and all the plans that can make it possible. We do not need policies," Vercueil said. #LandExpropriation #AgriSABriefing (@Sesona_Ngqaks) pic.twitter.com/thDjTlYxTx   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: High Court instructs government to draft a plan for District 6 restitutions Since the Restitution of Land Rights Act 22 of 1994 came into effect our government has failed to provide adequate restitution to the people of District Six - as well as having violated their constitutional  rights. WATCH: Rural community wins right to reject mining on their land The Pretoria High Court has ruled that the minister of mineral resources will have to get consent from the Xolobeni community prior to granting mining rights on their land. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  