Pelane Phakgadi WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. Beyoncé and Jay-Z perform during the Global Citizen Festival.  (Photo by Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) arrested seven people allegedly linked to several muggings and attacks after the Global Citizen Festival at FNB Stadium on Sunday. The JMPD said it understood many of the muggings reported on social media pointed to a gang of thugs attacking and robbing concert goers at or near a fuel garage, which was about 1.4 kilometres away from FNB Stadium. READ: 'Horrifying' gang attacks, stabbings and robberies ruin Global Citizen event Scores of concertgoers took to social media on Monday to express their dissatisfaction at security at the concert. Some said gangs of juveniles attacked and stabbed them before robbing them of cellphones and handbags. The City of Johannesburg's member of mayoral committee for public safety, Michael Sun, said he was shocked to hear about the incidents and stressed that the City was talking to police to establish what happened because they were responsible for overall policing at the festival.  After a total of 4km of walking, 2 hours, we found our aunt and escape. Leading the pack of 7 was frightful and I honestly am heartbroken. #GlobalaCitizenFestivalSA and Uber failed us and everyone who was attacked, burnt, stabbed, beaten, and robbed at Sasol and everywhere else. — Global Citizen - Michael Cost (@MickyCost) December 3, 2018 The #GlobalaCitizenFestivalSA really ended poverty for criminals in FNB...the thuggery I saw ????‍??????‍??beyond shocking  "We have learnt that only one incident was formally reported, which goes in stark contrast to the many reports surfacing all over media," Sun said. "We want to express our deepest regrets to those affected and call on the victims to come forward and report any incidents to the SAPS so investigation can be undertaken." Sun added that the event's safety and security planning committee had established a "safe zone" where concertgoers should have been picked up by e-hail taxis, and said that this might not have been conducted as planned. "It is suspected that the e-hail taxi operators may have requested some of their passengers to walk to the nearby Sasol garage to be picked up, which was outside the safe zone," Sun said. He said the City would assist with the police investigations. Sun pointed out that world-renowned band Guns and Roses attracted nearly 65 000 fans to their concert at the same stadium just three days before and the event was an overall incident-free one – except for a report of suspected domestic violence. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  