Correspondent Cheryl Zondi, 22, testifies during the trial against controversial Nigerian pastor Timothy Omotoso and his co-accused Zukiswa Sitho and Lusanda Sulani at the Port Elizabeth High Court on 10 October 2018 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cheryl
Zondi, the first witness in the rape trial of Nigerian
pastor Timothy Omotoso, is fighting to prevent an ex-lover from releasing a sex
tape, the Sunday Times reported. Zondi has reportedly been granted
an interim court order preventing Sandton businessman Michael Brits from
distributing, displaying, selling or making copies of any video or photographs
of a sexual nature that depict Zondi. According to Zondi's court
application, Brits had reportedly expressed plans to sell the sex tape to
Omotoso in order to tarnish Zondi's reputation and possibly also to obtain a
bribe. The interim order was granted on
November 2. A full hearing on the matter will be heard in March next year. Zondi told the Sunday Times that
she had been in a relationship with Brits from February to October last year, however,
she was unaware that a recording had ever been made. She reportedly first became aware
of his plans after she was contacted on November 1 by Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva,
the chair of the commission for the promotion and protection of the rights of
cultural religious and linguistic communities. Witness protection programme According to the Sunday Times,
Mkhwanazi-Xaluva had been contacted by a whistleblower whose friend had socialised
with Brits at a Sandton Hotel on October 30. During the night he had
reportedly shown photographs and videos involving Zondi and had commented about
plans to conduct a transaction with Omotoso. Mkhwanazi-Xaluva also told the
Sunday Times that she was aware of a R500 000 bounty, to have Zondi killed,
that was being offered by Omotoso's followers. Previously, News24 reported that
Zondi remains under the witness protection programme. Recently, Zondi reported
that she had laid a complaint with the Public Protector in order to promote changes to the system that assisted
victims more productively. The 22-year-old university
student previously testified in the trial of Omotoso and his two co-accused in
the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth. They are facing 63 charges and
34 alternative charges, which include rape, sexual assault and racketeering. Earlier this month, Zondi launched her own foundation to help women
and children who have been abused. Omotoso's trial is expected to
resume on February 4, next year.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.