Jenna Etheridge Blake Pittaway with his dog food donation. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Instead of having a wild party to celebrate the end of their exams, matriculants at Eersterivier Secondary School in Cape Town performed an act of community service. They donated their school uniforms to a charitable cause.

WATCH Celebrating an 18th birthday party usually involves presents and much fanfare. But one Cape Town teen decided to forego a flashy celebration and instead set up a charity to help animals in need. Blake Pittaway told News24 that he set up Project18 and used the money he received for his birthday on October 1 to help the Fallen Angels Pet Rescue in Melkbosstrand. "Normally, people go have massive parties. I decided I wanted to give back to communities and make a difference," he explained. He set up a website for donations and contacted dog food suppliers to secure a reduced rate and bulk order system. It was not long before he made his first donation of 200kg of food to the animal shelter.   "I can't sit at home and do nothing. I work at the beach six days a week and love it"   "Since October, we have now managed to donate 653kg. They have 350 dogs and go through 160kg of dog food a day which equates to around R54 000 a month." While many youths savour the opportunity of free time for relaxation and hanging with friends, Pittaway is always on the go. He volunteers as a lifeguard for the National Sea Rescue Institute and is training to be a coxswain. "I can't sit at home and do nothing. I work at the beach six days a week and love it." His family have been a huge support, with dad helping to set up his online payment portal and mom generously offering her chauffeur services to transport the dog food. "I help people on a daily basis but animals can't help themselves. "We as people, have so much and we just don't realise it. Animals get beaten and it's really sad how they have been abused and neglected."  Who let the dogs out? India celebrates pets at festival Indians bring their dogs and other pets to a two-day pet festival in New Delhi. Hundreds of sausage dogs take seasonal stroll in Hyde Park Hundreds of sausage dogs and their owners have dressed up in festive clothing for a Christmas walk. The horde of around 500 dogs, which are also known as Dachshunds, came in outfits including Father Christmas jackets, festive jumpers and tinsel. From hefty hounds to healthy hounds - two dogs share UK's 'biggest loser' crown Two dogs have been named joint pet slimmers of the year in 2018's PDSA Pet Fit Club competition after both shedding a quarter of their bodyweight - an incredible 18.8kg.

Every year vet charity PDSA helps the UK's fattest pets battle the bulge in ... This is why dogs are man's best friend Dog plays basketball with kids. Match-pointer! Ball-dogs step onto the tennis court Ball-dogs step onto the tennis court at The Royal Albert Hall Art inspired by dogs Known as man's best friend, it's no wonder that dogs have inspired painters, sculptors and photographers alike. Five artists who have immortalized their canine muses are especially creative examples. Dogs having fun in the slides Dog climbs up stairs ladder and goes down slide. 'Ralph Breaks the Internet' and 'The Incredibles 2' up for top animation prize This year's battle for the Best Animated Feature prize at this year's Annie Awards is about to commence and the front runners for 2018 are 'Isle of Dogs', 'Ralph Breaks the Internet', and 'The Incredibles 2', South Korea closes dog slaughterhouse The Taepyeong-dong complex in South Korea housed at least six dog slaughterhouses that could hold several hundred animals at a time and was a major source for dog meat restaurants across the country. #South Korea #slaughterhouse #dogs Netflix docu-series `Dogs' lovingly serves up the human bond The new Netflix docu-series `Dogs' lovingly serves up the bond with humans around the globe. Search teams with cadaver dogs seek fire victims As the search for human remains continues in the burned town of Paradise, fire officials in Northern California say some remains of the missing may never be found. Helicopter rescues people, dogs from wildfire Newly released video shows the dramatic moment firefighters rescued three people and two dogs as thick smoke and flames fast approached in Southern California. Helicopter pilots stage dramatic wildfire rescue Firefighters rescue three people and two dogs as thick smoke and flames fast approach following wildfires in California. ‘Is this a dream?’: People with diabetes meet their alert dogs Carrie Lemay says having a diabetes alert dog, trained to detect and alert her to low blood sugar, will help give her peace of mind. Lemay and five other people with Type 1 diabetes met their new canine companions this week in Oakville, Ontario. Drone video shows NorCal wildfire devastation A wildfire all but obliterated the Northern California town of Paradise, population 27,000, and ravaged surrounding areas last Thursday. About 7,700 homes were destroyed. Nepalese police dogs honoured for their duty in annual festival Nepalese police dogs honoured for their duty in annual festival Italian academy trains dogs to find truffles A  labrador wags his tail, happy to have found the hidden treasure as he graduates from Italy's "truffle dog university", making his master proud. Giovanni Monchiero is the dean of the unusual academy in Roddi in northwestern Italy and, like his f... Dog sled crash A sled crashes while being pulled by dogs. Sandra Bullock lost dad and dogs within weeks Sandra Bullock has just publicly touched on the tough time she’s had recently, and how she is recovering still from losing her dad and both her dogs in a matter of weeks. Simon Cowell's dogs fly on his private jet The beloved dogs of music mogul Simon Cowell all fly on his private jet. Kim Jong-un 'demonstrates humble leadership' South Korea's president believes North Korea is "changing" after several warm exchanges, including the gift of two 'treasured' dogs. Dogs escaping from kennel Smart dog finds out how to escape from kennel and help others. Pack of wild dogs take down 5 calves in buffalo buffet frenzy Talk about a buffalo buffet! This big pack of wild dogs let loose and took down five buffalo calves in a major feeding frenzy. Don't miss this dogs amazing skill! Dog balancing book with its head. Pooch-pot! Italian startup offers cannabis for depressed pets If your pet is anxious, depressed or aggressive, in Italy, you can treat it with cannabis. The Italian Start-up WeedEntity has opened a shop in Naples where dogs and cats with depression, arthritis, insomnia or chronic pain can receive treatment w... Dogs and owners march on Westminster in call for Brexit votel Hundreds of dogs and their owners have marched through central London as part of the "Wooferendum Dog March" to call for a people's vote on Brexit.

Actor Peter Egan and MP for Walthamstow Stella Creasy were among those who spoke at the rally, whi... Marcus Rashford learns about blind football from 15-year-old fan England's Marcus Rashford delighted 15-year-old football fanatic Rainbow Mbuangi and his buddy dog Drake following a recent visit to Manchester United's Carrington training ground. Moscow's Stray Subway Riding Dogs If you happen to be riding the subway in Moscow be sure to bring along a dog biscuit or two. Strays in the city know how to get around on the subway, which makes it official: commuting is for the dogs. Actijoy connected devices for dogs A sophisticated system for monitoring doggy’s activity, health, rest and water and food intake. Fidget spinners aren't just for humans... This dogs shows its amazing skills with a fidget spinner. Watch dramatic rescue of trapped dogs in Florence-hit North Carolina A man rescued howling dogs that were trapped in a flooded kennel in the town of Leland in storm-hit North Carolina. The dogs were safely evacuated to dry land and provided with food and shelter. Annual dog swim held at Brighton lido The annual dog swim at Saltdean Lido in Brighton marks the end of the season at the Art Deco venue. The lido invited dogs - and their owners - for the second Dog Swim Day before it closes its doors for the year. Corbyn the Cockapoo wins Westminster Dog of the Year Corbyn, the cockapoo of MP Mike Amesbury, won the public vote at this year's Westminster Dog of the Year Competition. MPs Andrew Mitchell and Cheryl Gillan also won prizes. Three dogs wearing life jackets rescued from speedboat Two people and three dogs are rescued from a speedboat. Poole Lifeboat responded to reports of a boat on fire. Call to ban dog meat trade in South Korea Nearly one million South Koreans have called for an end to the dog meat trade in their country. According to Humane Society International UK, an estimated 2.5 million dogs are reared for human consumption in South Korea. Meet the RSPCA's unluckiest dog The RSPCA is looking to rehome its unluckiest dog, Blue, who has been overlooked by 3,000 potential owners.

Just like his name, this lonely lurcher is feeling blue after spending 300 days in kennels. Animal ban for woman who kept cats and dogs in 'disgusting' conditions A woman has been banned from owning animals for life after keeping scores of cats and dogs in "filthy" pens at her home. Magic moments for dogs A Finnish magician tries out his sleight of hand on dogs - with astonishing results. Jose Ahonen has turned into a YouTube star when he decided to upload videos of his experiments online. EXCLUSIVE: Nikki Grahame on Big Brother, 'no-one can compete with Love Island' Self confessed Big Brother superfan and former contestant Nikki Grahame reveals that even though she misses the civilian series of 'Big Brother', nothing can compete with reality rival Love Island. The Killer Comet That Gave Rise to Civilization As We Know It Something cataclysmic happened to Earth 13,000 years ago that ended up doing manking as we know it a great big favor. Happy international Cat Day! - Part 1 This proves that cats, and not dogs, are man's best friend. You gotta love them! Happy international Cat Day! - Part 2 This proves that cats, and not dogs, are man's best friend. You gotta love them! Trending: Patrick Stewart to reprise Star Trek role, Priyanka Chopra bids farewell to Quantico show, In case you missed it, here's what's trending right now: Sir Patrick Stewart to reprise Star Trek role in new series, Priyanka Chopra bids farewell to Quantico show after finale, and Taylor Swift duets with Bryan Adams during Toronto show. Hot dog-munching trio in Russian headdress unlikely stars of World Cup They first appeared as a cutaway on national TV, nervously snacking on hot dogs during the tense penalty shootout between Russia and Spain. The aptly-named "Hot-Dog Trio" now have their own line of merchandise. Hotdog-munching Russian fans become social media stars of World Cup Three Russia fans who went viral after being spotted eating hot dogs during their team's victory over Spain have had a mural painted in their honour in Moscow. Toronto police find remains near house linked to Bruce McArthur Toronto police say excavations will continue after they found human remains in a ravine near a property where alleged serial killer Bruce McArthur worked. Det. Sgt. Hank Idsinga says cadaver dogs found several spots of interest. Kylie Jenner gets dog house built for dogs Kylie Jenner is having a lavish dog house built for her pet pooches Norman and Bambi in the garden of her mansion. Cardi B and Offset have eight dogs Cardi B has revealed her husband Offset has decided to keep five puppies from the litter of eight the couple's pet dogs had in June.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.