Jenni Evans WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. (Supplied by Drakenstein Municipality) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A massive fire in the towering Paarl mountains is under control with no evacuations required, the Drakenstein municipality said on Friday. "There was and is no need to evacuate the area or homes," spokesperson Riana Geldenhuys said. This was after "aggressive" overnight firefighting operations, in spite of strong winds. Two helicopters started waterbombing the area early on Friday morning to ensure that the fire is fully extinguished. This includes hotspots still found over an extensive area of plantation on the northern side of the mountain, above Rhebokskloof.  Two ground teams of 12 members each, contracted by the Cape Winelands District Municipality, are helping and the Drakenstein municipality's fire services are patrolling. No injuries have been reported. The police will investigate the cause of the fire. The municipality thanked the Cape Winelands District Municipality, Stellenbosch Local Municipality, Drakenstein Farmwatch and other private organisations for all of their help.  WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. Scenes of devastation in Brazil after fire burns down 600 homes Scenes of devastation in Manaus after a huge fire destroyed 600 wooden homes built on stilts next to a river in Brazil's Amazon region, decimating a poor area of the city but causing no deaths. Cloud of smoke covers Mexican city A massive cloud of thick black smoke engulfed the city of Toluca after a warehouse fire. Firemen work to put out fire at Rio oil refinery Firefighters in Rio de Janeiro work to put out a short-lived fire at the Manguinhos refinery. Firefighters tackle blaze at Chester Zoo Firefighters work to extinguish a blaze at Chester Zoo. Visitors have been evacuated after a fire broke out in the Monsoon Forest habitat area. All animals and visitors safe after fire at Chester Zoo All animals and visitors are safe after a fire ripped through Chester Zoo. Fire breaks out in DR Congo election commission building A fire breaks out in an electoral commission building in Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo,10 days ahead of presidential elections that have been foreshadowed by violence. Fire destroys thousands of voting machines ahead of key Congo vote Thousands of voting machines and ballot boxes have been destroyed in a fire at a warehouse in Kinshasa ahead of the Dec. 23 presidential election. Five children dead in Ohio house fire Five children dead in Ohio house fire WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. 'Yellow vests': scooters and cars on fire in Paris Firefighters try to extinguish scooters and cars on fire in Prony street, near Champs Elysees avenue in Paris, as Paris is hit by violence for the latest "yellow vest" protests against President Emmanuel Macron. Car and rubbish bins set on fire near the Champs-Elysées Protesters set a car and rubbish bins on fire near the Champs-Elysées avenue in the French capital during the latest "yellow vest" demonstrations against President Emmanuel Macron. Protesters set cars on fire in Paris A car is set on fire on Saturday on Hoche avenue, close to Champs-Elysées avenue, as Paris was hit by violence in the latest demonstrations against President Emmanuel Macron. 'Yellow Vest' protesters in central Paris determined to fight on "Yellow vest" protesters on the famous Champs-Elysees boulevard in Paris insist they will not give up demonstrating against French President Emmanuel Macron, as police fire tear gas and arrest hundreds of people in the capital. "Yellow vests": a barricade on fire in central Paris A barricade was on fire Saturday in central Paris as the French capital went on lockdown for the latest "yellow vest" protests against President Emmanuel Macron. One month after Camp Fire residents return to devastated city "The way the fire moved, it's just really strange..." A month after the Camp Fire, which killed at least 85 people, Scott Harris and dozens of residents of the bereaved city of Paradise are coming to terms with the new face of their city. More tha... This chef is 'on fire' When cooking goes wrong. Earthquakes Videographic on earthquakes. A 7.5-magnitude earthquake struck near New Caledonia, triggering a tsunami alert and emergency evacuations across a swathe of the South Pacific Two Syrian refugees die in camp fire east of Lebanon Syrian refugees check damage following a fire that ripped through their refugee camp in the village of Yammouneh in Lebanon's eastern Bekaa Valley, killing at least two people and destroying the camp, according to the National Information Agency. 'Yellow vest' protesters in Paris clash with police Police in Paris fire water cannon, tear gas and stun grenades at ''yellow vest'' protesters demonstrating against diesel prices and the high cost of living. 'Yellow vest' protesters and police clash on Champs-Élysées On a third day of unrest, clashes between "yellow vest" protesters and riot police break out on Paris' famed Champs-Élysées. Police fire tear gas, forcing the demonstrators to retreat. Man winched to safety in dramatic helicopter rescue A helicopter crew from the Los Angeles Fire Department lifted a man to safety from fast-moving waters in the rain-swollen Los Angeles River on Thursday morning. Terrifying footage shows escape from Paradise fire Police have released body camera footage showing a deputy getting caught in the deadly California wildfires while he was trying to help residents. Gender reveal party ignites wildfire The US Forest Service has released a video of the moment a gender reveal party set fire to the surrounding area, causing a 47,000-acre wildfire and damages worth millions of dollars. Many die in blast near China factory in Olympic city An explosion and fire near a chemical factory have left at least 23 people dead and 22 others injured in a northern China city that will host the 2022 Winter Olympics. Blast kills 22 near China factory in Olympic city An explosion and fire near a chemical factory leaves at least 22 people dead and 22 others injured in a northern China city that will host the 2022 Winter Olympics. Tear-gassed migrant mother recounts U.S. border chaos A migrant mother photographed running with her daughters from tear gas at the U.S.-Mexico border says she never expected the U.S. Border Patrol to fire gas canisters and children and families. Russia seizes Ukrainian ships Russian ships opened fire on Ukrainian naval vessels before seizing three vessels near the Kerch Strait, a narrow sea passage close to the Crimean Peninsula. Ukrainian navy says six people were wounded.
#Crimea #Russia #KerchStrait WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Woman uses children to steal at Paarl Mall A video of a woman with three children stealing a handbag in mall has gone viral online. Ukrainian government releases footage purporting to show Russian boat ramming ship Ukraine has said Russian fire has hit two of its navy vessels, with two crew members wounded - and both boats have been seized by Russia.

The Ukrainian navy said two of its vessels were struck on Sunday and Russian coastguard crews boarded them a... Migrant caravan: Hundreds rush border, tear gas fired Hundreds of migrants attempt to breach the US-Mexico border fence, but are stopped by US border officers who begin firing tear gas. Dusk falls on fiery Champs Elysées after day of protests After a day of clashes between protesters and police on the Champs-Elysees in Paris, debris, fires and smoke blanket the famed avenue as fire fighters work to put fires out and repair the damage. Margot Robbie started a fire cooking Thanksgiving dinner Margot Robbie once started a fire whilst cooking Thanksgiving dinner, so her friends won't let her in the kitchen again. Two police officers killed after gunmen storm Karachi Chinese Consulate Two policemen are killed as gunmen storm the Chinese Consulate in Karachi. Authorities say the attackers opened fire at consulate guards before breaching the main gate. The three gunmen who stormed were then shot dead by police.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.