Sharlene Rood WATCH: Furry friends spread festive cheer in paediatric oncology ward Paws for People on Thursday spread some festive cheer in the paediatric oncology ward at the Netcare Unitas Hospital in Centurion. Paws for People on Thursday spread some festive cheer in the paediatric oncology ward at the Netcare Unitas Hospital in Centurion.  (Sharlene Rood) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Paws for People on Thursday spread some festive cheer in the paediatric oncology ward at the Netcare Unitas Hospital in Centurion. The organisation's volunteer handler and dog teams visit the ward every second Thursday, but this week's visit, their last for the year, was extra special. "We brought the children some chocolates. This is a very difficult time of year for children to be in hospital, and for families to be here, so we hope to bring just a little bit of extra joy and happiness to them," said volunteer Lindie van Jaarsveld. Shannon Brand, mother to Katelyn, a 4-year-old cancer patient at the hospital, told News24 that her daughter waited all day for the dogs to come. "It's one of her favourite things, if we are in hospital. "It cheers her up a lot. It gives her something to look forward to instead of sitting in hospital all day," Brand said. Health benefits Katelyn was diagnosed with grade 4 embryonal central nervous system neuroblastoma (a rare form of brain cancer) in November 2017. She says her daughter loves all animals. "We can't take her to the zoo without tears because she's not allowed to touch the lions," she laughed. Paws for People was founded in 1997 and offers animal-assisted therapy and activity programmes in Gauteng, Free State, KwaZulu-Natal and in Cape Town through their sister unit, Paw Pals. Van Jaarsveld, who began volunteering in 2012, says the visits have real health benefits for children with cancer and other serious illnesses. "It lowers their blood pressure, it decreases the cortisol in their bodies, it provides a positive distraction for them, improves their mood and that in turn reduces their pain perception," she said. The visits also benefit family members of the sick children by reducing their stress levels. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: From Soweto to the skies - entrepreneur creates 'air taxi' business The first black-owned air taxi is bringing affordable flights to more 150 airports across the country. What the CEO Thokozani Miya describes as "Uber in the air". Watch. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH. WATCH: Khayelitsha's Buhle Sithelana uses solar power to host pop-up cinemas When Buhle Sithelana quit university due to financial constraints in 2015, he turned to social entrepreneurship to make a living. Now, the innovative 22-year-old Khayelitsha resident uses the proceeds from his bin cleaning service to host pop-up movi WATCH: Dancing to a new tune at the Hillbrow music school The youth of the inner-city community of Hillbrow can find solace in music, thanks to Amisi "Coco" Mubale and the Hillbrow Music Centre. Watch. WATCH: World's largest 3D printer lives in South Africa South Africa is home to the world's largest 3D printer. The printer is housed at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) at the National Laser Centre in Pretoria, Gauteng. It is set to revolutionise the aerospace industry. WATCH.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.