Riaan Grobler WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. Footage of the Intercape bus overtaking several other vehicles.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An Intercape bus driver is facing charges and has been suspended after footage emerged of him overtaking two heavy vehicles on a solid line with no clear view of oncoming traffic. This followed reports by the Daily Dispatch after a video of the incident went viral on social media over the weekend. WATCH: More reckless driving on SA's roads as festive season enters its peak Intercape management confirmed the incident in a statement on Tuesday. In the 13-second video clip, the bus could be seen passing two trucks around a bend on solid double white lines. The video received thousands of views and shares. "The driver admitted that he was wrong in his actions [and] was immediately suspended pending a disciplinary hearing," the company said in a statement. "Charges against the driver will be opened at the SAPS in Durban of recklessness and negligent driving." The driver has been in Intercape's service since August 2016. "The management of Intercape can assure the public of Southern Africa that this is not the standard of service and zero tolerance will [be] enforced. Intercape regrets and apologises for the unfortunate incident," the company said.  Two men save child falling from fifth floor of apartment A bus driver Tagir Magomedov and his colleague Aydemir Kulduev managed to catch a child falling from a fifth floor apartment window. They tried to catch the five-year old and successfully cushioned the fall. The girl did sustain any serious injuri... WATCH: Durban metro police officer charges at motorist A video of an altercation between a Durban Metro police officer and a driver has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH: Metro cop loses his cool after truck driver refuses to stop for police 'in the bushes' A video of a Namibian-registered truck refusing to pull off the road on police instructions last week has sparked heated debates on Facebook. WATCH: 2 men catch ride on back of truck carrying flammable liquid Two men were spotted on Monday catching a ride on the back of a truck carrying flammable liquid on a freeway in Johannesburg. WATCH: Driver reverses BMW i8 over pond, hedge and into wall A Joburg driver was left devastated after she crashed a BMW i8 into the neighbour's wall. WATCH: Looters target truck trapped by too low bridge The driver of this RTT Intelligent Logistics truck found himself stuck between a bridge he could not pass under and a group of waiting looters late last week. Woman who refused arranged marriage finds acceptance through wrestling A woman who felt like an "outcast and an outsider", after falling out with her family when she refused to have an arranged marriage, has told how she found acceptance in the wrestling ring. 

Marketing executive-turned-delivery driver Charlene Blu... Man jailed after leaving decommissioned ambulance on level crossing A driver abandons a decommissioned ambulance on a level crossing after a 37-mile police chase moments before a train speeds past the vehicle, missing it by inches.

Shane Hughes has been jailed for 22 months after being pursued by for 37 miles on ... Driver who crashed car into pub crowd is jailed for 12 years CCTV footage shows a man driving his car into a crowd of people outside a pub in Kent. 

25-year-old James Bates has been jailed for 12 years over the incident. 'Angel', 80, drives to aid of poor St Petersburg pensioners Long retired from her job as a Saint Petersburg trolley driver, 80-year-old Galina Yakovleva still spends her days behind the wheel, but now in a mini-van distributing food to needy pensioners. Several hurt in bus crash on Fla. highway Authorities say several people were hurt when the bus they were riding on crashed into a semi-truck on a Florida highway Thursday. All Hail! The 2019 NYC Taxi Drivers Calendar Is Here Forget the hunky firefighters and the pretty pin-ups that typically grace the pages of calendars... Kids escape serious injury in Arizona bus crash Authorities say school children riding a bus escaped serious injury after a pickup truck slammed into the bus Tuesday morning near metro Phoenix. The bus rolled over after colliding with the truck. Officials said the kids were released to parents. Hamilton, Bottas and Mercedes celebrate fifth world title Lewis Hamilton, Valterri Bottas and Mercedes celebrate fifth Formula One world title.
The team won their fifth consecutive manufacturers title this season, while Hamilton was crowned world champion driver for the fifth time. I knew I would race in Brazil - Ricciardo Daniel Ricciardo explained even though he really meant it when he said he was "done" with the Red Bull RB14 car after the failure during the race in Mexico, it was nothing more than an emotional reaction. Vettel to draw conclusions on championship battle defeat at the end of the season Ferrari driver Sebastien Vettel said on Thursday (8th November) that he will reflect on losing the F1 drivers' championship to Lewis Hamilton once the season is over. Victims’ mother says Muzzo parole denial doesn’t feel like ‘a win’ The mother of three kids who were killed along with their grandfather by a drunk driver in 2015 says Marco Muzzo’s parole denial doesn’t feel like “a victory.” Jennifer Neville-Lake says she doesn’t believe Muzzo has accepted responsibility. Parole denied for drunk driver Marco Muzzo, who killed four people in crash A drunk driver who killed four people in a crash has been denied parole The parole board said Marco Muzzo has not addressed his alcohol misuse Muzzo was sentenced to 10 years in prison in 2016 after pleading guilty The September 2015 crash killed ... What is 'disruption'? It's a term used to describe innovations that have the ability to destroy entire fields. Airbnb capitalization has overtaken that of big hotel chains, autonomous cars could soon put taxi drivers out of business. Who will win, and who will lose? Driver in Girl Scouts crash was 'huffing': police Police say the 21-year-old driver accused in a fatal hit-and-run in Wisconsin that killed three Girl Scouts and a mother admitted to inhaling chemical vapors before the crash. WATCH: Taxi driver arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road A taxi driver has been arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road to avoid traffic in Bryanston. The driver was filmed by a biker who forced him to turn around. Global NCAP: Nissan NP300 Crash Test 2018 The NP300 'Hardbody' achieved a zero-star rating for its poor adult occupant protection mainly in the driver head and chest areas in the frontal crash test at 64km/h. WATCH: Minibus taxi smashes into Engen garage shop, injuring 2 A minibus taxi crashed into an Engen QuickShop on Saturday evening, after the driver allegedly lost control of the vehicle. He had been filling up his vehicle at the petrol station. China deadly bus crash 'caused by fight with driver' Video has emerged of a fight between a passenger and the driver of a bus in China seconds before it plunged off a bridge, killing all 15 people on board. CCTV shows brawl between bus driver and passenger before China river plunge Police say a brawl between a passenger and a bus driver was the cause of the bus plunging off a bridge in southwestern China.

An eight-second surveillance video posted by Chongqing police on its social media account shows the two got into a fight... Bus gets caught in flood after ignoring barricade Police in Leander City release footage of a bus driver getting stuck on a flooded road after to raise awareness of the perils of ignoring warning barricades. Lewis Hamilton's career profile A fifth World Championship for Lewis Hamilton sees him move into joint-second place with Argentinian Juan Manuel Fangio in the all-time list. Here we take a look at the profile of the British Formula One driver. 'Fernando Alonso is a legend' F1 rivals pay tribute to the retiring McLaren driver Carlos Sainz and Pierra Gasly addressed media on Thursday (25th October) ahead the start of the Mexico Grand Prix. Biker get smashed! A fight between a biker and a driver is stopped by the police. Driver attacks with an axe! An angry man smashes up a car after in a road incident. Dramatic car crash involving 19 vehicles takes place in Kiev Nineteen vehicles were damaged in a huge car accident in Kiev's Pechersk neighbourhood. Vehicles piled on-top of one another after the driver of a KAMAZ crane reportedly lost control of his vehicle, later claiming that his brakes had failed. Kimi Raikkonen reflects on US Grand Prix win Reaction from Kimi Raikkonen after Raikkonen earned his first win since 2013 with victory for Ferrari at the U.S. Grand Prix on Sunday (21st October), forcing Mercedes driver Hamilton to wait at least one more week to claim his fifth career Formul... Lewis Hamilton blames strategy for US Grand Prix loss Reaction from Lewis Hamilton after Kimi Raikkonen earned his first win since 2013 with victory for Ferrari at the U.S. Grand Prix on Sunday (21st October), forcing Mercedes driver Hamilton to wait at least one more week to claim his fifth career F...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.