Pelane Phakgadi Grace Mugabe (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lobby group AfriForum said on Wednesday that it has learnt that a warrant of arrest has been issued against former Zimbabwean first lady Grace Mugabe. Mugabe is accused of assaulting South African model Gabriella Engels at a hotel in Sandton in August 2017, allegedly with an electrical extension cord. Pictures on social media appeared to show Engels bleeding from the head after the alleged assault at the hotel in the upmarket business district. Mugabe was granted diplomatic immunity by the South African government at the time, which led to her departure from the country after the incident. Read: Grace Mugabe immunity 'an error of law', court finds In 2009, a photographer accused Grace of beating him up in Hong Kong. AfriForum CEO Kallie Kriel said that "nobody is above the law, and everybody should be prosecuted when they transgress laws of the country". Read more: It would be 'unwise' for Grace Mugabe to visit SA again, say legal experts  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Who is Grace Mugabe? Zimbabwe's first lady, or "Gucci Grace" to some, was tipped to be the country's next president. Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference  in Esigodini with a speech from President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Zimbabweans reflect one year after Mugabe resignation As the country prepares to mark one year since then-president Robert Mugabe stepped down, Zimbabweans reflect on the expectations they had as the nonagenarian strongman's 37-year hold on power came to end, but say the change they hoped for has not... Lives at risk as drug prices soar in crisis-hit Zimbabwe Since starting treatment five years ago, 50-year-old Alice Chenyika kept her blood pressure under control by adhering to doctors' strict instructions to take two daily doses of nifedipine. Now Zimbabwe's worsening economic crisis has pushed prices... Senior opposition figure arrested at Zimbabwe border Senior opposition politician and former Zimbabwean finance minister Tendai Biti is arrested in the aftermath of last week's disputed election result. Zimbabwe's Mnangagwa wins presidential election Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a former spy chief installed after Robert Mugabe’s removal in a coup in November, was elected on Thursday after a poll marred by the deaths of six people in an army crackdown on opposition protests. Jane Lanh... Zimbabwe violence punctures hopes of change The Zimbabwean army's use of deadly violence following the country's landmark election has punctured euphoria over the ousting of Robert Mugabe, and damaged hopes of a new democratic era. Zimbabwe's voters stick with Mugabe's old party Zimbabwe's Zanu-PF has won a majority of seats in parliament, official results say, setting the stage for Emmerson Mnangagwa to win the presidency. Zimbabwe opposition alleges deliberate poll delay Zimbabwe's opposition has accused the country's electoral commission of deliberate delays in revealing the results of a presidential election, in order to favor the ruling Zanu-PF. Zimbabwe's Mugabe votes in first election since being ousted Former president Robert Mugabe votes in first Zimbabwean election without his name on the ballot paper in 38 years. Opposition cries foul in Zimbabwe's landmark vote The votes are being counted in Zimbabwe's first election since the ouster of Robert Mugabe - a crucial vote that could bring to an end the country's pariah status, but which has also been marred by allegations of voter suppression. Zimbabwe to vote for its post-Mugabe future Zimbabweans head to the polls on Monday for their first election since Robert Mugabe was ousted last year - with the result too close to call. David Doyle and MacDonald Dzirutwe report. Zimbabwe's entrepreneurs hope for a tech startup boom After struggling with Zimbabwe's crippled economy for years, the country's tech entrepreneurs are hoping that a startup boom is imminent. Zimbabwe's first poll since Mugabe set for July Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa has announced that a general election will be held on July 30 - a vote that could be crucial to securing foreign investment. Moyo: I will not take an immunity deal Robert Mugabe's former minister on the legitimacy of the new government in Zimbabwe. Mugabe 'wasn't offered anything' to resign A resignation mediator says he can't confirm reports that Zimbabwe's ex-leader was given $10m (GBP7.5m). Mugabe 'a father and mentor' to Mnangagwa Zimbabwe's new president paid tribute to his predecessor and promised to rebuild the country. 'Free': Zimbabwe's day of celebration Celebrations continued into the night after Robert Mugabe's 37-year reign as president came to an end. Tsvangirai 'hopeful' after Mugabe's resignation Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai says he hopes the president's resignation will put Zimbabwe on a "new trajectory". 'A government for relatives is not for us' People in Mugabe's home town say President Mugabe should step down. 'People sense Robert Mugabe is gone' Protests turn to celebrations on the streets of Zimbabwe's capital Harare. Mugabe makes first public appearance The president makes his first public appearance since Zimbabwe's army took over the country. Mugabe: Leaders come and gone The world leaders Zimbawe's president has seen come and go during his 37 years in office.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.