Canny Maphanga WATCH: A day in the life of a route patroller and toll collector As the busy festive season looms, bringing with it what is expected to be a heavy flow of traffic on the N3, those tasked with keeping travellers safe are getting themselves ready. N3TC Route Patrol (Canny Maphanga, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories As the busy festive season looms, bringing with it what is expected to be a heavy flow of traffic on the N3, those tasked with keeping travellers safe are getting themselves ready. Two of those who revellers are likely to encounter on the national road are N3 Toll Concession (N3TC) patrol officer Themba Masango and toll collector Fedile Selepe. So, if you find yourself running out of fuel far away from a service station, Masango will probably be the one who will come to your rescue. His role is to assist motorists who run out of fuel, have the misfortune of getting a flat tyre or need to be towed. "We come across different things as well as people who allow us to experience new things every day as we help commuters with regular issues on the road such as overheating, tyre changing, etc at no cost to the motorist," Masango explained. WATCH: Behind the scenes at the De Hoek plaza The De Hoek Plaza located in Heidelburg, Gauteng, on a normal day in December 5, 2017 saw 715 motor vehicles pass the tolls at 3pm and saw 2,621 motor vehicles pass through its lanes on it busiest day December 22, 2017, during the same hour. A typical day includes patrolling the Harrismith area close to the Free-State/KwaZulu-Natal border during a 12-hour shift. This entails observing the road for any obstructions and providing assistance to accident victims. "I love that I meet new people every day. This job is rewarding - in order for you to survive this job, you need to be very strong and willing to collect knowledge," he concluded. 'Please treat us with respect' – Toll collector Selepe, 27, has been stationed at De Hoek Plaza in Heidelburg since 2015 and will be manning one of the four booths as a toll collector during the festive season. Finding a job at the plaza came as a blessing after she struggled to find employment. "I studied office management, but when I couldn't find a job, I had to find a job here to support my child," Selepe explained. Selepe said that they often dealt with travellers who were disrespectful. "A lot of people come past here and do not take us seriously because they think we are not educated. Please treat us with respect because we are people with degrees. We just weren't afforded the opportunity to do what we studied so we have to do this," she concluded. Commuters making use of the popular N3 route should expect regular roadblocks there during the festive season. ALSO READ: Number of crashes up, but fatalities down on N3 for 2018  WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. Is a diesel car right for you? The diesel engine has been through something of a PR nightmare in recent years, but it is still a valid choice for many motorists - in this video, we see if diesel suits you. Quarter of fatal crashes attributed to falling asleep at the wheel One in eight UK motorists admit they had nodded off while driving, with close to two-fifths saying they'd sometimes been so tired they feared they would fall asleep.


That's according to research that has been announced as part of a new campaign ... Police share top tips for safely overtaking cyclists Hampshire and Thames Valley police forces have been working together to show motorists the safe way to overtake cyclists. Startups fill your gas tank for you A new service offered by two Russian startups allows motorists to order their fuel online and have it delivered to their gas tank. Saudi women prepare for right to drive The wait is over for Saudi Arabia's female motorists who will be able to officially drive from Sunday (June 24). Thai 'T-Rex' traffic cop Traffic police Tanit Bussabong wears a T-rex costume to work outside a school in Nakhon Nayok, Thailand to teach children and motorists traffic laws in a novel way. Volvo and Amazon offer Prime Now test drives Motorists in the UK can now book test drives through Amazon for the first time, thanks to a collaboration between Prime Now, Amazon's ultra-fast delivery service, and Volvo Car UK. Army deployed to help marooned motorists as Storm Emma hits UK The Army has been deployed to help marooned motorists as Storm Emma hits the UK. Hampshire Police called in the military to help evacuate people from the A31. Red weather warning as snow keeps falling Unrelenting snow has brought parts of Britain to a standstill, trapping motorists on roads overnight and threatening air, rail and road journeys across the country. Wallaby hops across Sydney Harbour Bridge The unusual sight of a wallaby bounding across the Sydney Harbour Bridge has surprised early-morning motorists. Snow sweeps across the UK Motorists faced treacherous driving conditions and dozens of schools have been closed as sub-zero temperatures and snow hit the UK.

Wintry showers swept in overnight with the Met Office issuing yellow warnings for snow and ice. 'Several people killed' after Amtrak train derails near Seattle Several people have died after an Amtrak passenger train derailed onto a busy road south of the US city of Seattle, authorities said.

Pierce County sheriff's spokesman Ed Troyer said none of the fatalities were motorists. Middle lane drivers responsible for over half of all lane drifts Middle lane drivers are responsible for 53% of all lane drifts committed by UK motorists on motorways, a study by Direct Line Car Insurance reveals.

Almost 1.5 million drivers have had to swerve off the road to avoid an accident.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.