Riaan Grobler WATCH | JHB crime stats: Drunk driving remains the city's most frequently recorded offence Drunk driving remains the highest offence in Johannesburg, according to the metro police latest statistics. (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Twenty-eight drunk drivers have been arrested in the past 20 days in the East Rand in Gauteng, according to EMPD spokesperson Chief Superintendent Wilfred M Kgasago. "Roadblocks targeting drunk drivers mounted by the EMPD Boksburg Precinct between Saturday, December 1 and Tuesday, December 18 yielded 28 drivers found having taken intoxicating alcohol while behind the wheels of motor vehicles on a public road," Kgasago said. The operations were conducted during the early hours and at night in Reiger Park, Boksburg North, Boksburg CBD and the surrounding suburbs. "Fourteen drivers were arrested in Reiger Park, six in Boksburg North and eight in the CBD and the surrounding suburbs. "The arrestees were charged with driving while under the influence of alcohol at Reiger Park, Boksburg North and Boksburg Central police stations. "They appeared in the Boksburg Magistrate’s Court. Their fate will be known as soon as the blood results are back from the laboratory," according to Kgasago. Drunk driving is the single biggest violation in Johannesburg. This was announced in September when the Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) released its crime statistics for the period January to August 2018. From January to August, the JMPD had arrested 7 283 people for drunk driving. This was slightly fewer than the 8 803 arrests made in the previous period.  WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: R 58K donation helps 69-year-old granny build her dream home A 69-year-old grandmother from Willowfountain in Pietermaritzburg will see her longstanding dream of rebuilding her home come true, after her employers crowdsourced almost R60 000 towards renovations. The Best in Class of 2018 for Euro NCAP crash safety ratings Euro NCAP announced its annual Best in Class winners today and three of the vehicles tested in 2018 have achieved the coveted award. WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. Jaguar Land Rover opens the door for easier access with automatic technology Jaguar Land Rover has developed the ultimate car door that opens automatically as the driver approaches or can be operated by gesture control.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.