Tammy Petersen (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A bus full of suspects was escorted to the Sandton police station on Monday after the 105 occupants, alleged to be striking workers, were arrested on charges of public violence and malicious damage to property, say Gauteng police. Spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said it was expected to take about two days to process and charge the group, suspected to be Dis-Chem employees currently on strike. Read: Dis-Chem plans for festive season amid warning of 'intensifying' strike A crowd of people allegedly got off a bus at the Woodmead Retail Park at about 13:15 on Monday and stormed the local Dis-Chem branch, pelting it with stones and rocks, police said. This resulted in damage worth an estimated R30 000. Makhubele said police and security responded to the scene and the group returned to the bus which then apparently proceeded to the Chilli Lane Shopping Centre, where they attacked another Dis-Chem branch, damaging trolleys and windows and causing damage estimated at R40 000. Following that incident police and private security companies swooped on the bus and its passengers who'd returned to the vehicle and escorted it to the Sandton police station where the occupants were taken into custody. Makhubele said it was expected to take up to 48 hours to charge all of the suspects ahead of their appearance in court. News24 last month reported that Gauteng police used rubber bullets to disperse about 2 000 workers belonging to the National Union of Public Service and Allied Workers who were protesting outside Dis-Chem's offices in Midrand, Johannesburg. Read more: Police fire rubber bullets to disperse striking Dis-Chem workers The workers were demanding salary increases and annual bonuses equal to basic salaries. WATCH: Stun grenades fired, rocks hurled in tense standoff between police and MyCiTi strikers Striking MyCiTi workers have been released from the Cape Town civic centre, after the building was placed on lockdown when protests began on the ground floor. WATCH: Striking MyCiTi workers removed from civic centre with force The City of Cape Town's civic centre has been locked down after striking MyCiTi bus employees protested on the ground floor of the building. WATCH: MyCiTi bus drivers' 'wildcat' strike continues into second day A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.