Sumeya Gasa WATCH: Golf's Evolution - Bella Modisha heads to the States to evolve golf Bella Modisha is the first and only black woman in Southern Africa to qualify as a professional golfer with the PGA and now she wishes to give back. It's a cloudy Sunday afternoon at the Royal Johannesburg and Kensington Golf Club as Rebone Bella Modisha concludes a golf lesson with a private client. She had also spent the previous day working at the club – her weekends, just like her daily life, are dedicated to the male-dominated sport. "The love for the game began when I learned to hit the ball properly," says Modisha. She says she took up the sport when a golf development programme was introduced at her high school. WATCH: Putting to Victory - Soweto's young golfers thrive against the odds Four years ago, Prince Modiba took on a journey that changed the lives of close to one hundred Soweto youths. The Andrew Mlangeni Golf Academy became the first of its kind in the area. It hasn't been easy but the young golfers strive against the odds However, after her final year, she could no longer benefit from the programme. Modisha had to make her own way to continue playing the sport. She aspired to play professionally and was determined to make her dream a reality. But the financial hurdles that came with this aspiration made it very difficult. "I discovered over the years, as I improved, that it might not be possible without financial support. So I started reaching out and looking for other ways to remain in the game," says Modisha. In 2014, she enrolled with the Professional Golfers Association’s (PGA) internationally acclaimed programme and, three years later, became the first and only black woman in southern Africa to qualify as a professional golfer with the PGA. 'Passionate about giving back' "I enrolled for PGA of South Africa," Modisha says. "I completed the three-year course [...] and I graduated as what you see me today, the first and only black woman to qualify in the country." Now she wishes to give more young women like herself the chance to explore the game. Her upcoming trip to a teaching conference and the World Trade Show in the US is one of the ways she aims to become the best person for the mission. "I am passionate about giving back," she says. Modisha runs a development programme for girls in Alexandra, Johannesburg, under her company Bella Modisha Golf Evolution. In order to fund the programme, Modisha runs a number of corporate and individual golf training packages. After all, she got her golf break the same way. Modisha is due to head to the teaching conference early next year. She hopes to come back with more knowledge to pass on to her girls.  WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: South African paramedic dies in helicopter crash in the UAE A South African paramedic is among four people who died when a helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates. WATCH: Father of boxing champion killed in heated argument in Gauteng A video which has been circulating on social media shows a 61-year-old man and a security guard in a heated altercation, WATCH: Protesters reclaim Clifton beach Lobby group Black People's National Crisis Committee arranged a protest at Clifton Fourth Beach on Friday evening following reports that private security company ecurity company PPA Security allegedly closed down the beach at sunset last Sunday. WATCH: Khabisi Mosunkutu remembered at emotional memorial service The memorial service of ANC stalwart Khabisi Mosunkutu was held on Friday at Pimville,Soweto. The 69-year-old former MEC passed away on Monday after battling with his health for some time. WATCH: Leeuwkop prison surprise raid: Dagga, shanks and cellphones found On Thursday morning the Department of Correctional Services executed a surprise raid at Leeuwkop prison in Johannesburg, catching inmates off guard and revealing their illicit possessions.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.