Tholakele Mnganga Thato Molosankwe. (Photo: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Thato
Molosankwe is attempting to raise awareness about women abuse, rape and femicide
by embarking on a 42 177km walk, called Moral Regeneration Walk, covering 49
African countries on foot. The
social activist began his journey on Mandela Day this year where he walked all
nine provinces. Now he’s taking his trek across the continent, where he’ll
reach Cairo, Egypt in 2028. Speaking
to DRUM about his expedition, Thato says the “scourge of immorality” inspired
him to embark on the walk. He adds
that he wants the focus to be not just on his walk, but about educating men to
change their behaviour towards women. “The
abuse and rape and killing of women is getting out of hand so this walk is
about regeneration,” he says. “I walk to different towns and contact
organisations to give a spotlight to gender-based violence.” Thato
adds that along with holding workshops to denounce violence, they also
encourage women to point out their abusers, force them to go to the police
station to lay a case and hope the perpetrators are brought to justice. “We take
these men to the police stations so it can be put on the record that we, as the
community, spoke to them on the issue of domestic violence.” Thato
points to a decay of morality as the reason behind gender-based crime, and gives
his thoughts on this. “Religion
is the reason we hate one another so much. Capitalism is the reason we hate one
another so much, and politics,” he says. Speaking
specifically on religion, Thato says it has created an environment where
different denominations can’t “sit with one another”. “As a
ZCC [Zion Christian Church] person, they don’t speak well with the born-again.
The born-again doesn’t speak well with the Catholic. This thing is instilled in
us when we are baptised as children. It teaches us that we are better than the
other.” Thato
first began his activism in 2014, after hearing about how rife domestic
violence is within communities. As
someone who also suffered abuse, and became a voice for others, he hopes his
commitment will inspire others to change their ways. “Growing
up in violence should encourage you to fight against it. I want to use moral
regeneration to change people.”     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.