Riaan Grobler Train line. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man, believed to be in his 50s, was left critically injured when he was hit by a train near the Southfield Station in Cape Town on Tuesday. ER24 paramedics, along with Life Healthcare, arrived on the scene to find the fire services already in attendance. On closer inspection, paramedics found the man lying next to the tracks. Assessments showed that the man had sustained numerous injuries and was in a critical condition. ALSO READ: Pregnant woman dies after being hit by train The man was treated for his injuries and provided with advanced life support interventions. Once treated, the man was transported by ER24, under advanced life support interventions from a Life Healthcare paramedic, to Groote Schuur Provincial Hospital for further care. Local authorities were on the scene for further investigations, ER24 said.  It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: #UniteBehind to launch #DelayRepay campaign at Cape Town Station #UniteBehind is set to launch #DelayRepay, a campaign to demand better rail service and compensation in cases of continued delays, later on Thursday. WATCH: Ekurhuleni is the 'engine of economic growth' - Ramaphosa at launch of train plant President Cyril Ramaphosa has described Ekurhuleni, where the official launch of a  multi-billion rand train manufacturing plant was held, as the engine of economic growth in the country. The plant is expected to deliver two new trains by December 20 WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province. WATCH: Ferrari accident on the N2 Cape Town.mp4 Rion from CF towing  was 1st person on  the scene said the driver lost control when he looked down and the next thing he hit the highway concrete on the N2 Airport turn off.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.