Jan Gerber WATCH: CCTV emerges of Sasol garage chaos as thugs target Global Citizens concertgoers What was supposed to be an exciting ending to a day filled with international entertainment, turned out to be a horrific ordeal for concertgoers outside the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg on Sunday evening. The Cabinet "strongly condemns" the criminal attacks which followed the Global Citizen concert in Johannesburg this past weekend. "Cabinet thanks all participants of the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 held in Johannesburg on Sunday, December 2, 2018," reads the statement released on Thursday, following this week's Cabinet meeting. "The festival formed part of the national commemorative events to celebrate the centenary of Tata Nelson Mandela and was transmitted in over 180 countries. "It brought together thousands of global citizens, activists, world leaders, musicians and influencers to advance the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations (UN) in honour of Mandela’s memory. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. "Cabinet extends its sympathy to all those who were violated by criminal elements that preyed on them whilst leaving the stadium. It strongly condemns these criminal acts and calls on law-enforcement agencies to bring offenders to book." Batohi appointment Cabinet also welcomed the appointment of advocate Shamila Batohi as National Director of Public Prosecutions by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday. "The appointment brings stability to the leadership of the National Prosecuting Authority and emboldens the country’s fight against crime and corruption," reads the statement. The appointment follows the Ramaohosa's consideration of five nominees shortlisted by an advisory panel. "Cabinet extends its appreciation to Energy Minister Jeff Radebe and the panel for their contribution to this historic process of appointment." Anniversary of Mandela's death Cabinet said it joined South Africans in commemorating the fifth anniversary of the death of the country's first democratically-elected president, Nelson Mandela, who died on December 5, 2013. "President Ramaphosa declared 2018 as the year marking Mandela’s centenary. His legacy has been celebrated throughout the year by South Africans in their various formations, the most recent being the Global Citizens Mandela 100 Festival held over the past weekend. "Cabinet calls on all to stay true to Madiba’s ideals, including his unwavering commitment to justice, equality and non-racialism." Elections Cabinet also asked South Africans to ready themselves for next year's election. "In preparation for the 2019 elections, Cabinet calls on South Africans to exercise their right as responsible citizens by ensuring they have a green bar-coded ID book, smart ID card or temporary identity certificate, and are registered to vote in their districts," reads the statement. "The Independent Electoral Commission will hold a voter registration weekend on 26 and 27 January 2019 and South Africans are encouraged to use the opportunity to register to vote or verify their registration status. "Cabinet appeals to those who have applied for Smart IDs to collect their documents at their respective Department of Home Affairs (DHA) branches."  Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels for summit EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels to review relations and discuss ways of intensifying and broadening their cooperation, at the 7th summit between the two sides, which takes place 100 years after Nelson Mandela's birth. The summit will... 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. Was Mandela a hero or a 'sell-out'? The BBC asked young South Africans for their views on anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela. 'Rainbow nation' is still a dream in South Africa With few prospects for the future, the freedom Nelson Mandela fought for has little to offer young people. Today's South Africa has many troubles, including a high proportion of people without jobs. Theresa May visits Nelson Mandela's cell on Robben Island Theresa May visits Robben Island in South Africa, which housed political prisoner Nelson Mandela. The Prime Minister is on a three-day trip to Africa on a trade mission designed to bolster the UK's post-Brexit fortunes. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  