Yamkela Ntshongwana Mbungwa Mkoki with the scrap metal she has collected. Her arms were burnt while burning the metal, she says. (Yamkela Ntshongwana, GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories On the busy R61 road, between Lusikisiki and Port St Johns, Nomvalo village has become home to a number of women who sleep out in the open, GroundUp reports. They wait for a truck to take them to a company in Isipingo, Durban, where they can sell the scrap metal they have been collecting. Nowelile Latakisa, 64, and her 34-year-old daughter Zimasa Latakisa are among the scrap collectors. They take turns to go to Durban to sell it. Mbungwa Mkoki is 69. "We sleep here on the roadside for weeks. We are at risk … [but] we cannot leave our scrap metal here because some people with bakkies might steal it," she says. Their children bring them food in the late afternoon and they wash in a nearby stream. "Even though I am old, I am still forced to bring food to the table for my children. None of my older children is working," says Mkoki. Mkoki gathers old tins, zinc sheets and any scrap metal or iron she can find. She sells the metal to The Reclamation Group, where she says "everything is put on a weighing machine". The women burn the scrap metal for reasons that aren't entirely clear to GroundUp. Recently, Mkoki was burnt in the process. Her face was burnt, hurting her eyes, and her arms are still bandaged. READ: 'It's scary down there' - Informal miners risk their lives to make R25 from a wheelbarrow of coal "We don't make much money. Sometimes you come back with a maximum of R1 200." From this, Mkoki says, she has to pay for the truck to Isipingo. She also hires a bakkie to take her to Port St Johns where she can collect discarded cans. These costs can be R650. So she still depends on her social grant. If it is raining, the women sometimes stay with Vuyani Mdlazi - a man who owns a brick home he built within sight of their piles of scrap metal beside the road. He has six children to look after, so he charges the women R10 a night to sleep on mattresses on the floor. "I saw these struggling women sleeping outside in the cold. I pitied them. On the following day, I went to them and had a chat with them about their business," says Mdlazi. The women say they can end up camping for up to three weeks while they wait for a truck. 'We do this work with all our hearts' Stories of real heroism from two women helping in the aftermath of the Indonesian earthquake. Saudi women get to work - and drive Restrictions on the kind of work women can do in Saudi Arabia are being eased. Women are only allowed to drive as of this month. And already some want to become taxi drivers. The pace of change has suddenly accelerated. Why this purse has saved many lives Isatou Ceesay runs a project in The Gambia which recycles plastic waste, and has created work for many women across the country. On an oil ship off Angola, life is work and privacy is a luxury As Angola launches its largest ever investment in offshore oil and gas exploration, AFP meets the men and women behind the huge project. A gym in Baghdad opened its doors to both women and men A gym in Baghdad opened its doors to both women and men. The modern facilities have been greeted well by customs who don't feel there is any reason why men and women shouldn't train together. "This hurdle is not available due to the wider society,... BBC employees protest the gender pay gap on International Women's Day BBC staff have gathered outside Broadcasting House on International Women's Day to call for equal pay.

Journalists including the corporation's chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet and Woman's Hour presenter Jane Garvey took part. The women changing the face of Iranian politics Although women can't run in the forthcoming presidential elections in Iran, they are active in local politics. We spoke to four women about their experiences. Bangladesh garment workers reject minimum wage Bangladesh unions staged demonstrations on September 14 to reject the government plan to fix the monthly minimum wage to $95. Four million people, mostly women, work in the apparel industry in Bangladesh and earn one of the lowest wages among garm... Women in the fast lane There aren't many women in motor racing. But they can change the oil, develop cars, drive them and race them as well as any man. That's what former racing driver Susie Wolff tells us in our 'Don't Call Me Bossy!' series. Mexico: A march to protest violence against women Women in Mexico take to the streets to mark the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. Afghan women find freedom in running The all-female Free to Run group hits Kabul city's trails and parks several times a week, braving disapproving looks, verbal abuse and even physical violence to enjoy the rare pleasure of exercising outdoors. Processions marches celebrate 100 years of suffrage for women Thousands of people marched through the streets of London, Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast on Sunday to  commemorate 100 years since women were granted the vote in 1918. Bayaka women singing in Congo rainforest Listen to the Bayaka, a group of hunter-gatherers who live in Central Africa, singing a traditional song. Saudi women on what life's really like Saudi Arabian women on the truth behind gender stereotypes about life in the country. Why Elderly Japanese Women are Going to Jail On Purpose Why are elderly women in Japan trying to get thrown into prison? Women Against ISIS In the war against ISIS, the only movement combatting the jihadists with any effectiveness on the ground is the Kurdish resistance army. This movement is made up of both men and women fighters forcing back the jihadists and reclaiming the land. Where women earn more than men in US A new analysis by Stateline found only seven communities where women make significantly more than men.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.