Kamva Somdyala Chapman's Peak Drive. (Mark Skinner/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The body of a woman who fell to her death on Sunday from the Lookout Point at Chapman's Peak in Cape Town has been recovered, paramedics said. It is believed that the 31-year-old woman was celebrating her birthday when she slipped and fell. National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) spokesperson Craig Lambinon said the NSRI in the Kommetjie and Hout Bay areas were "activated following eyewitness reports of a woman who had fallen from the cliff". The Western Cape's EMS ambulance and EMS rescue squads responded, together with the SA Police Service and Wilderness Search and Rescue (WSAR) team. "On arrival on the scene, it was found that a woman from Sea Point had slipped and fallen over the edge at Lookout Point." 'Succumbed to injuries' "She was celebrating her birthday with her family," said Lambinon. He told News24 that he could not comment on whether the spot from where the woman fell was dangerous terrain. "Rescuers were deployed to the scene on a cliff face below Lookout Point by the Skymed rescue helicopter, by NSRI sea rescue craft, and WSAR and EMS technicians deployed in a high angle rescue operation. "Sadly, the woman succumbed to injuries sustained in the fall." Her body was recovered and taken into the care of forensic pathology services. Family were cared for on the scene by police, together with a police trauma counsellor, NSRI crew and EMS rescue paramedics. Police have opened an inquest docket. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Third Thailand cave rescue mission underway A third rescue operation to bring out the remaining four boys and their football coach from a flooded cave in Thailand has begun.

Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osatanakorn said the rescue mission began at 10.08am local time and involves 19 divers. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. Firefighters rescue dog from flaming building Firefighters are being commended for rescuing a dog from a burning apartment in Cordoba, Spain.

One of the rescue squad picks up the limp animal, running into the street to begin trying to save its life Man rescued from 80ft blowhole in Cornwall A man is in hospital with serious injuries after falling down part of an 80ft collapsed seacave in Trevone, Cornwall.

The rescue mission took three hours as rescuers had to be lowered into the hole. Thai Navy Seals say all 12 boys and their coach rescued from cave Thai Navy Seals said on Tuesday all 12 boys and their coach have been rescued from the cave, ending an ordeal that lasted more than two weeks. Preview: 2018 Currie Cup final in numbers Here are some key numbers ahead of Saturday's Currie Cup final between Western Province and the Sharks at Newlands. 'Motivated' Province ready to turn it on against the Sharks Centre Ruhan Nel says that Western Province are motivated to perform at Newlands ahead of the Currie Cup final against the Sharks this weekend. WATCH: MyCiTi bus drivers' 'wildcat' strike continues into second day A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Swimmers rescued by drone Lifeguards were being trained how to use the drone when the drama unfolded in what's being called a world first rescue. Italy shuts ports to ship with over 600 migrants A rescue ship with more than 600 migrants on board was drifting in international waters on Monday as Italy's new interior minister doubled down on his decision to stop it docking in an Italian port. Meghan rescues Harry from the rain in Dubbo The Duchess of Sussex came to the rescue when Harry was caught in the rain without an umbrella in Dubbo, Australia. Two cops jump into the sea to rescue drowning kangaroo A kangaroo with an apparent love of the sea was rescued from the waves by two police officers in Melbourne. Helicopter rescue of family of five A family of five and their two dogs were rescued from the roof of their house in Santa Barbara. Sewer handprints help to rescue 13-year-old boy stuck in pipe A 13-year-old boy was rescued from a sewer after fingerprints were found on the pipe. Jesse Hernandez was trapped in the Los Angeles sewer system for 12 hours. Almost 1,000 migrants rescued in one day The Libyan coastguard carried out 3 operations rescuing 948 migrants and recovering 10 bodies off the coast of Libya on Sunday. Why is the Aquarius migrant rescue ship empty? The boat has been caught in the middle of a diplomatic row meaning it's been unable to undertake rescue operations. Thai rescue diver dies working on cave rescue A Thai rescuer has died after falling unconscious during part of an operation to rescue 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped inside a cave complex in northern Thailand. Indian sailor rescued from yacht stranded off Australian coast The yacht of an Indian sailor was seen stranded at sea off the coast of Australia before he was rescued on Monday. May dons dancing shoes in SA The prime minister shimmied with school kids in Cape Town at the start of her visit to Africa. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Paper cranes of hope for Thai cave rescue Classmates of rescued teenager Adul folded 1,000 paper cranes as they prayed for his safe return. Thailand cave rescue: What are the options? Bill Whitehouse from the British Cave Rescue Council explains how the boys and their coach might be rescued. Thai cave rescue: A country in prayer Rescuers have been searching for a group of boys who went to explore a cave with their football coach. 'Thank you' say the 12 Thai cave rescue boys and their coach in video messages The 12 Thai boys and their football coach, who were rescued from a flooded cave, say thank you from their hospital beds. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH: Hout Bay, Cape Town, rioters block roads, torch factory over fisherman's death Protesters in Hangberg, Hout Bay took to the streets on Monday to "fight for their brother" who went missing during an anti-poaching operation at sea. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. The Street Art Galleries of Cape Town Rather than an act of vandalism, many see graffiti art as a form of visual poetry engaging with the people of the city. This is your guide to exploring the open-air galleries of the Mother City in South Africa. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. Absa Premiership 2018/19 profile: Cape Town City A look at the profile of Absa Premiership side Cape Town City ahead of the 2018/19 season. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. What goes on behind-the-scenes on a game show Channel24 was invited to a taping of celebrity trivia game show Tropika Smoooth Fan in Cape Town and we're giving you a behind-the-scenes look! Phase three of Thai cave rescue gets underway The third phase of an operation to rescue four remaining boys and their soccer coach trapped inside a flooded Thai cave began on Tuesday morning, the head of the rescue mission said. Helicopter rescues people, dogs from wildfire Newly released video shows the dramatic moment firefighters rescued three people and two dogs as thick smoke and flames fast approached in Southern California. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  