Duncan Alfreds An artist’s impression of the supersoft X-ray binary system, ASASSN-16oh, with a small white dwarf star (left) accreting hot gas from its Sun-like companion (right), through an accretion disk. (NASA, CXC, M Weiss) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Work by researchers operating the Southern African Large Telescope (SALT) in the Northern Cape has confirmed that a white dwarf star is cannibalising its companion star. The find has led astronomers to change their view on how massive radiation bursts occur on white dwarf stars. The star, ASASSN-16oh, some 200 000 light years from Earth, was initially discovered on December 2, 2016, but additional observation from SALT and other instruments was required to confirm the find. WATCH: A South African telescope just found a runaway star racing at more than 2 000km a second Underground lake found on Mars Scientists say they've spotted what appears to be a sizable salt-laden lake under ice on the southern polar plain of Mars, raising the possibility of life on the Red Planet. Observations of the star showed that it was a "supersoft" X-ray source, produced by gas at temperatures of about 900 000°C. Such supersoft sources are associated with a runaway thermonuclear explosion on the surface of the white dwarf. They usually occur over a relatively short period of time. 'Fortunate' "The discovery has shown that there is more than one way for a white dwarf to emit this radiation, nuclear fusion, but now also accretion on to a white dwarf," science engagement officer at the South African Astronomical Observatory Dr Daniel Cunnama told News24. Astronomers had to act quickly to capture the radiation from the white dwarf. READ: North West University's Mahikeng campus scores its first astronomy observatory "We were fortunate to be able to react quickly to its discovery and undertake crucial observations during the outburst phase," said Dr David Buckley, the principal investigator of the SALT Large Science Programme on transients. But the data shows that ASASSN-16oh is not a normal supersoft source. The star is taking material from its red giant companion, which is swirling around it in what astronomers call an accretion disk. Radiation The gas from the red giant spirals around the white dwarf and when it falls onto the star, it emits a burst of radiation. "The transfer of mass is happening at a higher rate than in any system we've caught in the past," said Professor Tom Maccarone, lead author of the ASASSN-16oh discovery paper that appeared in the December 3 issue of Nature Astronomy. The radiation is an indicator that ASASSN-16oh may end up as a supernova as it consumes more of the red giant's material. And it won't end happily for any planets that may have been in orbit around the system. "Any planets in the system would either have been destroyed as the two stars began spiralling toward each other or flung out far from the system," said Cunnama.    KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Chiwetel Ejiofor and Robert Lindsay join Maleficent sequel Brits Chiwetel Ejiofor and Robert Lindsay have joined the all-star cast for the 'Maleficent' sequel. Lost interstellar asteroid enters solar system and baffles scientists A lost interstellar asteroid has entered the solar system after wandering between the stars for hundreds of millions of years, scientists believe. The unique object, named Oumuamua, is highly elongated, about 400 metres long and dark red. Michael Douglas honoured on Walk of Fame in front of proud father Kirk An emotional Michael Douglas was honoured with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as his proud father and fellow screen giant Kirk watched on. Nasa footage shows eruption on the Sun Footage from Nasa shows a minor eruption on the Sun surface. The event was captured in extreme ultraviolet light. At its peak, the plasma rises to heights that are several times the diameter of Earth. Glow-in-the-Dark Plants Blue Origin's Crew Capsule 2.0 takes first flight, scientists at MIT make glow-in-the-dark plants and Google is opening an AI center in China. All this on Crunch Report. Earth-sized planet discovered with 'mild' climate and peaceful parent star A newly discovered planet orbiting a nearby star could be the closest world to Earth providing a comfortable home for life. The Earth-sized planet, named Ross 128b, is just 11 light years away. Lift off in NASA's mission to "touch the sun" The Parker Solar Probe was launched on Sunday in a mission to venture closer to the Sun than ever before. British-built spacecraft is set for Mercury A British-built spacecraft is set to blast off from Earth bound for Mercury, the mysterious planet closest to the sun.

BepiColombo, one of the most ambitious missions ever undertaken by the European Space Agency, will send two orbiters to explore... Nasa spacecraft heads to sun for closest look yet Nasa has launched a spacecraft to the sun that will fly closer to our star than anything ever sent before. 'Solo: A Star Wars Story' premieres in LA It was a big night last night for Star Wars fans as 'Solo' just premiered in LA. Donald Glover cut friends off to avoid Star Wars spoilers Donald Glover "stopped talking to his friends" to avoid letting slip 'Solo: A Star Wars Story' spoilers. Movie Hit List In cinemas soon: 'Solo: A Star Wars Story', 'Adrift', 'Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation', 'The Spy Who Dumped Me' 'Solo' Exclusive: Ron Howard on directing the movie half way through Ron Howard brought a lot of elements to the action including a few laughs along the way in the making of 'Solo: A Star Wars Story' Solo: A Star Wars Story offers plot hints 'Solo: A Star Wars Story's new teaser has provided the best insight yet into the highly anticipated movie. Suyyash- Prince SINGS on Priyanks Bday After participating in Bigg Boss, TV Star Priyank Sharma recently celebrated his birthday by cutting a special cake with his friends and media. The party was attended by Preetika Rao, Prince Narula, Yuvika Chaudhary, Suyyash Rai among others. Priy... Crowds greet 'perfect' summer solstice sunrise at Stonehenge Crowds cheered the rise of the sun at Stonehenge as thousands gathered to celebrate the summer solstice. Snow in the Sahara desert Residents of a town on the edge of the Sahara desert woke up to a rare sight - snowfall. Palestinians turn to the sun to reduce their power shortfall Palestinians are hoping that harnessing the energy of the sun can reduce their dependence on Israel for electricity.  Thuy Ong repots. Movie Premiere: Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom All dinosaur fans assemble. The latest installment in the Jurassic saga 'Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom' is here. Leading stars Chris Pratt and Bruce Dallas Howard endured the sun AND pouring rain to attend the world premiere in Madrid. Movie Report: 'Midnight Sun' In the romantic drama 'Midnight Sun' we meet 17-year-old Katie Price, played by Bella Thorne, who suffers from a rare genetic condition that makes her vulnerable to sunlight. Let's take a look at what the A list has been up to this week. 'Mission Impossible: Fallout' premiered in London at the IMAX, bringing a star studded event to the summer, and Tom Cruise thankfully all in one piece are he filmed all the death defying stunts in the movie himself. China Floats to the Top of the Solar Energy Pool China is literally floating its solar energy fututre atop of its coal-burning past. World's first ocean-going solar yacht can cruise the globe with no need for a fuel stop A Swiss company has designed a solar-powered yacht with the ability to cruise the entire globe - without needing to stop and refuel. Landmarks pay tribute to victorious Bleus as sun sets in Paris Paris is lit up in blue, white and red on Sunday as the city celebrates France's World Cup win with light shows at its most iconic monuments. Star Walk at Lux Golden Rose Awards 2018 Last night , all of B-town stars were gathered for the annual gala night of Lux Golden Rose Awards 2018. The Stars' Best Kept Secrets: Shawn Mendes Canadian singer songwriter Shawn Mendes shot to fame as a teen, thanks to the internet, and is now an award winning artist. But what are some things you may not have known about this talented young star? Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's astrological wedding Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are set to have the stars and planets align for their wedding, according to astrologists. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. Let There Be Light Brings Fusion Energy to Life Can we bring the nuclear fusion power of the sun & stars to Planet Earth? The new documentary Let There Be Light follows the scientists who think we can. Kit Harington wed Rose Leslie in a star studded event 'Game of Thrones' stars Kit Harington and Rose Leslie finally tied the knot recently. The ceremony took place in a beautiful castle in Scotland with lots of friends and family in attendance. Anne-Marie plans to ask Shawn Mendes for collaboration Anne-Marie has agreed to ask Shawn Mendes for a collaboration after it was announced she is among the stars joining the Canadian pop star at Capital's Summertime Ball on June 9. Dave Franco thinks it's the right time to work with brother James Dave Franco says it feels like it is "finally the right time" to work on a movie with his brother James as he has managed to cement his position as a star in his own right. Star Wars-inspired hair: The Halo How to get a Star Wars-inspired Halo hairdo by Great Lengths and stylist Lucy Graham. Star Trek-Like Holodeck allows hologram meetings Can't make it to that important meeting? A star trek-like holodeck device could be the solution. Movie Hit List In cinemas soon: 'Siberia', 'Dog Days', 'Blindspotting', 'A Star is Born' Lady Gaga gets bouquet from fan Lady Gaga was given a bouquet by a fan at the 'A Star is Born' UK premiere. GQ Men of the Year Awards 2018 - Red Carpet Best Bits! THE GQ Men of the Year Awards is always a star studded ceremony and this year is no different and BANG Showbiz is here to give you the highlights. Who looks good and who bears ALL!? Hollywood's Fresh Faces: Eiza Gonzalez Born and raised in Mexico, actress, model and singer Eiza Gonzalez always hoped she'd become a star, but her father was opposed to a career in showbiz for her. Halsey's A Star Is Born cameo Pop singer Halsey has revealed she appears in 'A Star Is Born' as herself in a small part. Lady Gaga 'recovering' from A Star Is Born Lady Gaga is "still recovering" from her role in 'A Star Is Born', because she hasn't been able to separate Ally from herself since the movie wrapped. Bradley Cooper teases A Star Is Born Bradley Cooper unveiled the trailer for his highly-anticipated A Star Is Born movie at CinemaCon recently. The actor is making his directorial debut with the upcoming musical-drama film, which is a remake of the 1937 film of the same name. Cooper ... Liam Payne offers support to Shawn Mendes as he navigates fame Liam Payne has offered a sympathetic ear to fellow pop star Shawn Mendes to help the teen avoid the pitfalls of fame. Collecting bugs The photos and videos of young insect breeder Adrian Kozakiewicz have made him a star on the Internet. Hundreds of thousands of people follow the bug enthusiast on social media. The Stars' Best Kept Secrets: Oscar Isaac Latino hunk Oscar Isaac is part of two blockbuster franchises, the 'X-Men' series and 'Star Wars'. But what are some things you may not have known about this handsome singer and actor? Bradley Cooper credits Silver Linings Playbook filmmaker for his directorial debut Bradley Cooper has credited Silver Linings Playbook director David O Russell with helping him believe he could make his own film.

The Hangover star makes his directorial debut with A Star Is Born, in which he stars opposite Lady Gaga, and which h... Domhnall Gleeson: Fame's intense Hollywood star Domhnall Gleeson admits he finds fame "intense" but he won't complain as he knows there are much bigger stars than him who don't object to the attention. The Stars' Best Kept Secrets: Priyanka Chopra Indian beauty Priyanka Chopra is one of the most popular Bollywood actresses of all time, and she's recently been making her mark in America through both TV and movies. But what are some things you may not have known about this multi-talented star? Fanney Khan Review | Was Anil Kidnapping Aishwarya a success Adapted from the Belgian film "Everybody's Famous!", an Oscar nominated film in 2001, "Fanney Khan" is the story of a father who goes to various lengths to encourage his daughter to become a star singer. Overall, the film offers promises and hopes... Patrick Schwarzenegger reveals when he decided to become an actor The young star attended the premiere of his latest movie, 'Midnight Sun'. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  