Alex Mitchley Umalusi has approved the 2018 national senior certificate (NSC) exam results, saying there were no leaked exam papers this year. The quality assurance council was briefing the media on the approval of the latest matric results in Pretoria on Friday. - Sign-up here for your Matric Results and you could win R10 000! Umalusi says 796 542 students wrote the NSC examinations in 2018. The body's chief executive, Dr Mafu Ramoketsi, said it had a duty to ensure the "high quality of education is maintained". Ramoketsi was also pleased to announce that there was a marked improvement in the overall quality of question papers across the assessment bodies. [#Umalusi Rakometsi says they are satisfied that there was an improvement in the quality of question papers submitted for approval (@AlexMitchley) READ: 10 tips to help you succeed at finding a job after matric The NSC results will be released on January 4, 2019, while the 2018 Independent Examination Board matric results will be made public on January 3. \#Umalusi Rakometsi says it will be better for all involved if results are released at a later date, not the first week of January (@AlexMitchley) ALSO READ: Matric results scenario planning Umalusi chairperson John Volmink announced that the 2018 national examinations went smoothly without any systemic irregularities. “Systemic irregularities are exam irregularities/malpractices that compromise the integrity of examinations on a large scale,” Volmink said. Volmink said this year's results were a continuation of the upward trend seen in gateway subjects, like Maths and Science. #Umalusi Volmink said it is pleasing that there is a steady upward trend in some of the gateway subjects in terms of marks , such as maths and science (@AlexMitchley) He added that while there were no systemic irregularities such as leaked examinations, a few irregularities were picked up and subsequently reconciled. “Nevertheless, the following irregularities are worth mentioning: In Gauteng, the principal of Mpontsheng Secondary School was reportedly involved in an incident where he allegedly gave answers to learners during the writing of Geography Paper 1.” Volmink said that affected learners were afforded an opportunity to rewrite the examination. In the Eastern Cape, protests by learners in a high School disrupted the writing of English paper 1. These learners were also afforded the opportunity to rewrite the exam.According to Volmink, of the 67 subjects presented by the Department of Education, 39 subjects’ raw marks were accepted while  17 subject were adjusted upwards and 11 subjects were adjusted downwards. This is done to standardise the results, with the aim to achieve equivalence is the standard of examination across the years, subjects and assessment bodies, Volmink explained. - See our Matric Results page.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.