Sibusiso Mdlalose Women from Mndozo village, Newcastle, dig for coal. (Sibusiso Mdlalose) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Sibongile Mhlongo is one of a group of women from Mndozo village near Newcastle who have resorted to digging for coal to eke out a living. They use pickaxes, crowbars and shovels. It is dangerous work, and rock falls are a constant threat, GroundUp reports. In May, a 78-year-old man from the village died on arrival at hospital after a rock fell on him while he was digging. His death was reported to Osizweni police and an inquest docket was opened. The site where the women dig was never a coal mine. It was where the villagers dug for sand. Later, they found coal. Mhlongo says, "I'm a mother of two young sons, age 11 and eight, and I can't stop thinking about them when I go down there digging. But I always pray, and God knows my hardship." "It's scary down there, most especially for us as women. But one has no choice but to dig because this is our only way of trying to eke out a living. I'm most afraid of a possible rock fall, because some of the local villagers I had known lost their lives while doing what I'm doing," she says. READ: DIY mining gogo gets licence to mine: 'The earth and its minerals belong to us black people' Mhlongo has been unemployed since 2015. "I have been trying without success to get another job since I lost my job at Shoprite, where I worked as a cashier. It is difficult to get a job here in Newcastle because there are very few firms in our town, and there are many people who are unemployed." Gugu Mkhize, who also digs for coal, says she completed matric in 2011 but has not managed to find a job. Her older sister is also unemployed. The women sell coal to local villagers and residents from nearby Osizweni, but mostly to local brick makers who use coal in brick-making. They sell the coal for R25 a wheelbarrow. Together they can make R900 in a week. Inkosi Sawela Kubheka, the local chief, whose chieftaincy owns the land on which the coal digging is taking place, told GroundUp that he has been warning the villagers about the dangers. "Lives have been lost in that illegal coal digging hole, but people still continue to dig coal there. I have been warning them now and again, but my warnings and pleas have fallen on deaf ears. But I have communicated with relevant government authorities to have this illegal coal digging hole closed down once and for all as it constantly poses danger to people," said Inkosi Kubheka. WATCH: Stealing Sunflowers | A News24 Documentary on race relations in Coligny News24 explores the events surrounding the death of 16-year-old Matlhomola Mosweu and how it changed the small North West town of Coligny forever. WATCH: Rural community wins right to reject mining on their land The Pretoria High Court has ruled that the minister of mineral resources will have to get consent from the Xolobeni community prior to granting mining rights on their land. Malawian villagers sift through soil in search for gold Many locals struggling to survive in Malawi are turning to illegal gold mining in the hope of getting rich quick as the country experiences a gold rush. Mineral Resources see first iron ore train depart Koolyanobbing 08 Nov 2018 - Mining services company Mineral Resources (ASX:MIN) is pleased to announce the departure of its first train loaded with iron ore from the newly acquired Koolyanobbing Operation in Western Australia’s Yilgarn region. Water fight in Chile's Atacama raises questions over lithium mining Earlier this year two of the world's biggest lithium producers celebrated new deals with Chile's government allowing them to increase output in the Atacama, but as Francis Maguire reports questions linger over the sustainability of lithium mining in Glencore reports record earnings, higher costs too Glencore has reported a 23 percent rise in first-half earnings and a 12 percent increase from its trading division while noting higher production costs for copper and zinc and a still volatile market.But, as Francis Maguire reports, its shares sti... BHP boosts Australia nickel mining amid EV boom Global miner BHP is ploughing more investment into nickel mine development and exploration in Western Australia, seeking to secure its own supply of a key material in batteries needed to meet booming demand for electric cars. Ed Giles reports Rio Tinto falls as profit miss highlights cost concerns Global miner Rio Tinto said on Wednesday its first half profit grew 12 percent, missing estimates and sending shares lower even though it earmarked an additional $1 billion to buy back London-listed stock. Wild West Ghost Town Sells For $1.4 million A Wild West Ghost Town has been sold for $1.4 million. Cerro Gordo, a 19th century mining town 200 miles north of Los Angeles, had been listed for $925,000. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  