Russel Molefe, Correspondent A suspect arrested with a stolen vehicle to be smuggled into Zimbabwe.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Hawks in Limpopo have turned their attention to border posts, particularly Beit Bridge in Musina, where luxury vehicles stolen from other provinces were recovered during the festive season. Speaking to News24 on Friday, provincial Hawks spokesperson Captain Matimba Maluleke said the elite unit was concerned that some officials may be working with cross-border car smuggling syndicates. This comes after yet another syndicate was smashed in Madimbo village outside Musina last Friday. A suspect, aged 29, was arrested and a Toyota Fortuner was recovered. The suspect appeared in the Musina Magistrate's Court and was kept in custody. He will appear again on Monday, December 31, 2018. "The vehicle was reported stolen in Yeoville (Johannesburg). It was driven at night and we were able to follow it up to Madimbo at 03:00," Maluleke said. He said cross-border car smuggling has been a concern to the Hawks, especially this festive season. A continuous challenge The festive season saw an increase in the number of stolen vehicles and other goods from other provinces that were intercepted in Limpopo en route to Zimbabwe. "This has been a challenge. It's obvious there are some corrupt officials working with these cross-border car smuggling syndicates," Maluleke said. Another concern was that members of the syndicates were able to go through roadblocks undetected by traffic and police officers. "They use fake licence discs. At the roadblocks, you only check if the licence disc corresponds with the number plates. "Therefore it needs intelligence and specialised units who can tell if the engine number and other aspects have been tampered with. Even the Hawks themselves alone cannot always detect stolen vehicles," he said. "It needs a serious roadblock where other units such as the VIS (vehicle identification safeguarding) are involved to counter these syndicates." Some of the tactics the syndicates use include transporting stolen vehicles in closed trucks, and donkeys to take the vehicles across the Limpopo River into Zimbabwe. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Limpopo matriculant comes out tops despite textbook, computer shortage Dimpho Phalane, a matriculant at Mampotjane Secondary School in Limpopo, could barely contain her excitement when she realised she was one of the country's top achievers. Meet The Face Of Amarula In The Limpopo Bush You don't have to go to fancy golf resorts or city boutique hotels for a luxury long weekend tryst - and at the Amarula Lapa in Limpopo you can even taste the wild of Africa and feel like bush royalty. When your day in Sabi starts with a leopard kill inside the camp... Staff in Idube Game Reserve who spend their entire time in the bush could not believe this early-morning kill which took place right on the lawn of the lodge. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.