Russel Molefe, Correspondent WATCH: VBS lead investigator Terry Motau live on News24 The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) dropped an explosive report into looting at VBS Mutual Bank this week.

The report, by advocate Terry Motau, details the transactions that led to a collapse of the financial institution. ANC flag. (Thulani Mbele, Gallo Images, Sowetan, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC in Limpopo says it expects the seven mayors instructed on Tuesday to resign over the VBS Mutual Bank scandal to vacate their offices without putting up a fight. Florence Radzilani, who is also the party's deputy chairperson in the province, has since resigned as mayor of Vhembe municipality. The six remaining mayors are still to formally resign. The party's provincial secretary, Soviet Lekganyane, said he expected them to heed all instructions from the party. "I don't recall any member refusing when called to become a mayor. So, we don't anticipate any difficulty," Lekganyane told the media at the release of the provincial treasury report into the VBS saga. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. Giving details on why the mayors were being forced to resign, Lekganyane said the party had established its own task team to investigate the circumstances that led the municipalities to invest with VBS. He said the task team had found transgressions of policies and a very serious weakness around the party's deployment strategy. Letters written by the provincial treasury to withdraw the invested money were also ignored. For instance, Lepelle-Nkumpi municipality went ahead and invested R150m with VBS in November 2016. This was after it had received a letter in August of that year from the provincial treasury advising municipalities to desist from investing with VBS. However, Lekganyane said the report of the party's task team was withheld, "taking into cognisance that there was also an investigation by the government." R1bn permanently lost "As the ANC, we cannot go and instruct mayors or councils to remove municipal managers or any other official. The authority we have is on our own deployees," Lekganyane said. "The PEC (provincial executive committee) discussed with fragility of emotions that there must be serious political consequences in those municipalities," he said. He hinted that action might still be taken against the mayors whose municipalities heeded a call by the provincial treasury to withdraw the investment. Three out of the 10 municipalities that invested with VBS did  so. READ: UPDATE: Top ANC man Danny Msiza linked to VBS scandal resigns The seven municipalities that failed to do so have now permanently lost more than R1bn. "We will continue to monitor our deployees in municipalities to ensure the recommendations of the investigations are implemented," Lekganyane said. Releasing the provincial treasury report on Tuesday, Premier Stan Mathabatha also indicated that there might be civil claims laid against the mayors and officials implicated in the VBS scandal. Municipalities under dire financial stress "The recommendations are very clear. There must be criminal charges and civil claims. "We want to see arrests, successful prosecutions and serious jail terms for all those who have violated the law. For our part as government, we will provide all the necessary support to the law enforcement agencies to bring this matter to finality," he said. The provincial treasury report has found that municipal officials and political office bearers all admitted knowledge of the Municipal Finance Management Act, the Municipal Management Act, the Municipal Structures Act and the Municipal Systems Act. It recommended that disciplinary actions be taken against municipal managers and chief financial officers (CFOs) of the municipalities involved in the VBS saga. So far, certain entities have already placed their municipal managers and CFOs under suspension. Others, such as Giyani municipality CFO Hitler Maluleke, have since been dismissed. Finance MEC Rob Tooley said there were already three municipalities under dire financial stress, including the Giyani municipality, which had invested just over R148m into the now collapsed bank. Rural Funds Group (ASX: RFF) portfolio and acquisitions update 04 Dec 2018 - Rural Funds Group (ASX: RFF) acquires new properties and undertakes transaction with JBS Australia. Blogger Steve Hanisch explores Alicante The Spanish port city of Alicante is famous for its historic old town district. Travel blogger Steve Hanisch visits the 13th century Castillo de Santa Barbara, a fortress that boasts spectacular views. Investing for your grandchildren Vishal Kapoor, CEO, IDFC Mutual Fund helps you with your mutual fund investments. Our experts' take on all your investment related queries Gaurang Shah and Hemen Kapadia answer all your long term and short term related market investment queries. WATCH: Patricia de Lille talks about her future and her journey as Cape Town mayor Her battle with the DA was like an abusive relationship, Patricia de Lille says. And the best decision when caught in such a situation is to walk away, "because it's not going to change". Protesters demand mayor's resignation over building collapses Ten days after two dilapidated buildings collapsed in Marseille, killing at least eight people, hundreds of protesters march from the disaster site to the city's town hall. Mayor: Toronto still 'one of the safest cities' in the world After a string of shootings in Toronto, Mayor John Tory says efforts are being made to get "gangsters" off the street. Tory says the city is still "generally safe."     .  . Healthscope repays $690m hospital debt 04 Dec 2018 - Healthscope (ASX:HSO) today announced that the $690 million Northern Beaches Hospital project finance debt facility has been repaid in full. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. WTI Crude weakest since Oct 2017 Fall in crude will have a positive impact on CPI , expect 10-Year bond yield in range of 7.85-7.90% in short-term, says Lakshmi Iyer, Chief Investment Officer- Debt, Kotak MF. ''Expect Bond Yield To Be In Range Of 7.85- 7.90'' Fall in crude will have a positive impact on CPI , expect 10-Year bond yield in range of 7.85-7.90% in short-term, says Lakshmi Iyer, Chief Investment Officer- Debt, Kotak MF. SIP: The long term commitment Feroze Azeez of Anand Rathi helps you with personal finance. Yancoal allocates 68.4 million new shares under global offering 30 Nov 2018 - Yancoal (ASX:YAL) has allocated over 68 million new shares to investors under the global offering at an offer price of HK$23.48 per Share, that's equivalent to $4.15 Australian dollar per share, to raise total proceeds of HK$1.605 bi... What are the risks to long term investing? The holding period globally has come down to 7 months from 2.5 years earlier. The holding period is shrinking and long term is getting shorter. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. Why must you stay committed to SIPs for a long term? Indians' invest around Rs 8000 Cr Via SIP per month. Transurban announces 29 cents interim dividend 05 Dec 2018 - Transurban (ASX:TCL) has announced an interim dividend of 29 cents per stapled security. IMF Bentham announces second closing of new US fund 10 Dec 2018 - IMF Bentham (ASX:IMF) has announced the launch of US Fund 4 with capital commitments in the first closing of US$375 million. Market Over-Emphasising State Election Results "Election can be a temporary blip for investors," says Ajay Srivastava, MD of Dimensions Corporate Finance. Elections to drive market sentiment "Election can be a temporary blip for investors," says Ajay Srivastava, MD of Dimensions Corporate Finance. 'Market Over-Emphasising State Election Results' "Election can be a temporary blip for investors," says Ajay Srivastava, MD of Dimensions Corporate Finance. Cardno to buy engineering company TGM 07 Dec 2018 - Professional infrastructure and environmental services consultancy, Cardno (ASX:CDD) has agreed to buy TGM, a Victorian based engineering services company. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. World Bank ups funds to tackle 'threat' of climate change: Attenborough's U.N. plea The World Bank will give equal weight to curbing emissions and helping poor countries deal with the "disastrous effects" of a warming world as it steps up investments to tackle climate change in the first half of the 2020s.  As Francis Maguire report Toronto representatives challenge Ford's council downsizing The Ontario government threw a wrench into Toronto municipal politics on Friday by announcing a huge reduction to the size of the city's council. Toronto's mayor and city councillors react to Premier Doug Ford's proposed change. Toronto mayor denounces Doug Ford's plan to slash council seats Toronto mayor John Tory is criticizing a proposed plan from Doug Ford to reduce the number of city councillors from 47 to 25. Tory says the Ontario premier should not be interfering ahead of October's municipal election. Mexico City Mayor vows an end to persecution and abuse Claudia Sheinbaum takes the oath of office in Mexico as the first woman to be elected mayor of Mexico City and vows to restore democracy and political freedom, and stop the abuse and persecution of opposition members. Hearts and Minds Investments (ASX:HM1) lists on ASX 26 Nov 2018 - Hearts and Minds Investments Limited (ASX:HM1) Chairman, Chris Cuffe talks about the LIC's investment approach and the charitable goals of the company. Hearts and Minds Investments listed on the ASX on 14 November 2018. You can learn... Manappuram Finance Limited On RBI's Liquidity Boost For NBFCs New securitisation norms an opportunity to tide over liquidity pressure says V. P. Nandakumar, MD & CEO, Manappuram Finance Limited. Invest for your daughter's education Is your portfolio too risky? should you re-balance or consolidate your funds? Here is what our market expert has to say. Russell Investments Dynamic Real Return Series 21 Nov 2018 - Russell Investments, Director Client Investment Strategies, Scott Fletcher, talks about how the Russell Investments Dynamic Real Return Series aims to deliver returns with substantially less volatility than traditional investments. Plan your retirement with MF Guide Nisreen Mamaji, Moneyworks Financial Advisors helps you understand mutual funds and its ways. Smarter Money Investments cash and bond funds 20 Nov 2018 - Smarter Money Investments Portfolio Manager, Chris Joye provides an overview of the company's funds and outlines why cash and fixed interest funds should be a part of every portfolio. The Reject Shop surprise takeover offer 21 Nov 2018 - The Reject Shop (ASX:TRS) has had a surprise takeover offer from Allensford. Expert Guide on the right approach to your investment Grow your money by investing in mutual funds with expert guidance. Investing In Close-Ended Funds Pooja Bhinde, CFP, PB Investments answers all your mutual funds related queries. Fossil Free The trust that politicians will solve climate change is waning, and a growing group of concerned citizens is looking for other ways to tackle it. They're now focusing on the financial world, which they believe has crucial influence. Our experts' take on all your investment related queries Thinking of long term investments? Here is your best financial tips. Successful placement for Future Generation Investment Company 18 Nov 2018 - Future Generation Investment Company (ASX:FGX) will begin trading again today after raising over $43.9 million through a placement to existing investors. Blue Sky Alternative Investments announces board changes 10 Dec 2018 - Blue Sky Alternative Investments (ASX:BLA) has announced the Hon Cheryl Edwardes AM, John McDonald and Robert Kaye SC will join its board as independent non-executive directors. WATCH: EFF expected to address VBS claims The Economic Freedom Fighters will on Tuesday address the media on the VBS Mutual Bank report released by the South African Reserve Bank last, titled The Great Bank Heist. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.