Duncan Alfreds DNA strands (Getty) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Academy of Science of South Africa (ASSAf) has released a study it says is aimed at creating a more certain regulatory environment for government departments on matters relating to human genetics and the human genome. The authors of the study, titled Human Genetics and Genomics in South Africa: Ethical, Legal and Social Implications, also hope that it will direct specific research into human genetics. "On the one hand the field [of genetics] is grossly under-regulated. On the other, we have a unique combination of genetic diversity and high disease burden which makes South Africa a key site globally to do biomedical research," research panel chair Professor Michael Pepper from the University of Pretoria told News24. The report is broadly focused on the areas of building relationships, respect and stewardship in terms of research into genetics. DNA Videographic on DNA. The explosion of individual DNA test kits has opened the floodgates for people who were born from sperm or egg donations. Increasing numbers of people are using the technology to uncover the identities of their donors. "Overarching recommendations of the report call for capacity development as appropriately trained and skilled personnel at all levels of genetics and genomics work is currently in short supply," said the ASSAf of the report. The report advises that South Africa establish guidelines that address the ethical, legal and social implications of genetic work. Closer ties between stakeholders recommended In this area, the study specifically recommends regulation of the new field of consumer genetic marketing and testing. These guidelines must be feasible, enforceable and sustainable, says the report. Read: Genetic tweak makes plants use 25% less water "Breakthroughs are happening all the time, and we need to be ready to absorb the latest developments where they can be of benefit to our patients," said Pepper. "The framework we propose will increase the probability of this happening by providing comfort both to researchers/practitioners and patients." In terms of building relationships, the report recommends that closer ties are established between researchers, the public, academic institutions and the forensic science sectors. Forensic science was critical in convicting axe murderer Henri van Breda who killed his father, mother and brother in their upmarket Stellenbosch estate home. SA researchers 'have set the bar high' Experts for both the State and defence argued over the validity of the DNA evidence in the Western Cape High Court. In the case of the murder of Courtney Pieters, forensic evidence was used to establish the extent of the sexual assault on the toddler. Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation expressed its dismay over unintended consequences after Chinese scientist He Jiankui announced that he had edited the genes of twin girls. Read more: 'Extremely abominable': Chinese gene-editing scientist faces the law Genetics experts in South Africa are cognisant of how their work should be informed by ethics, Pepper asserted. "South African researchers, guided in part by the country's research ethics committees, have set the bar high when it comes to ethics attitudes, and this is in part related to our history of discrimination as well as the recognition that we have a very valuable resource that needs to be protected." To ensure that this standard is upheld, the report calls for the establishment of a South African human genetics advisory board which will enforce a code of conduct for professionals in the field. ASSAf president Professor Jonathan Jansen acknowledged funding for the study from the Department of Science and Technology.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. WATCH: Report shows over six million SA children live below the poverty line Over six million children in South Africa still live below the food poverty line, according to the Child Gauge 2018 report released on Tuesday. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. DNA from genealogy website led to Golden State Killer suspect Police used DNA information on a genealogy website to track down the Golden State Killer suspect. Nigeria clash will be 'tough' - Baxter South Africa prepared in Johannesburg on Friday (16th November) for their AFCON 2019 qualifier against Group E leaders Nigeria. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. The Bumpy Roads of South Africa's Wild Coast It's very easy to get lost on South Africa's Wild Coast, wandering its many magical beaches, combing for lost relics washed up by the ocean, or listening to the lively twitterings of the birds that are unseen in the forests' canopies. A Stone-Age Kalashnikov - Part 1 The Surma live in the Omo Valley, a region in Southern Ethiopia bordering Sudan. Donga stick fighting is recognised as one of the bloodiest sports in Africa and banned in Ethiopia, but winning the Donga is what most Surma men desire. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. A Stone Age Kalashnikov - Part 2 The Surma live in the Omo Valley, a region in Southern Ethiopia bordering Sudan. Donga stick fighting is recognised as one of the bloodiest sports in Africa and banned in Ethiopia, but winning the Donga is what most Surma men desire. With murder rate rising, how do Venezuelans survive? As if coping with constant food and medicine shortages were not enough for crisis-weary Venezuelans, many live in constant fear in a country where three people die violently every hour. How the Murder of 132 Slaves Helped End the Slave Trade The history of slavery is full of heartless and cruel stories, but one heinous case forced the action needed to end the British slave trade. We Know One Per Cent of What We'll Ultimately Know Genetics pioneer Craig Venter reveals what we have and have not learned from the human genome sequence, and the biggest challenges we face as our population soars. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Philippines court hands down first murder verdict against police in drug war A Philippine court on Thursday found three police officers guilty of murder for the killing of a 17-year-old high school student, the first such conviction in President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. WATCH: The arrival of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Hannah Cornelius A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. Waste not: South Africa makes world's first human urine brick One day, when nature calls, your urine could be put to better use than to be flushed down the loo. Instead it could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part2) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. French President meets South African President at G20 summit French President Emannuel Macron meets South African President Cyril Ramaphosa during G20 summit in Buenos Aires. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 1 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.
Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Gene editing promises to boost nutrition in foods By early next year, the first foods made from gene-edited plants are expected to begin selling. It’s very different than today’s controversial “genetically modified” foods. But some critics say gene-edited products still need close monitoring. WATCH: Marinda Steyn takes the stand in Krugersdorp murder trial WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State finished its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Decoding the DNA Opportunity with Anne Wojcicki (23andMe) Anne Wojcicki co-founded 23andMe to empower consumers with their genetic information. Now, 12 years after its founding, hear from CEO Wojcicki on the tremendous opportunities that can be unlocked by genetic testing. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) German minister suggests voluntary colonialism for Africa The African Union has rejected a proposal by a German minister suggesting foreign powers acquire land in Africa to stop migration. #voluntary #colonialism #Africa The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  