Correspondent (File, Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban police have intercepted a container full of stripped car parts, intended for Mauritius, at the Durban Harbour. Upon inspection, some of the parts appeared to have belonged to hijacked vehicles, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani said. He said police are also investigating why car parts belonging to licensed, insured and financed vehicles which have not been reported as stolen were also included in the container. The area is reportedly notorious for being used to smuggle illegal car parts in and out of the country. In October 2017, an Eshowe woman was arrested for being in possession of stolen vehicle engine parts, IOL reported. Two stolen vehicles were found in Uthekela around the same time. According to The Witness, three members of an alleged hijacking syndicate were arrested in Durban in June 2018. This followed two botched hijackings that month in which two people, including a child, were killed. Metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad said at the time that the Durban South area had become a hijacking hotspot.  WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. Tesla launches new $45,000 Model 3 Tesla introduced a new $45,000 version of its Model 3 sedan on its website, launching the car as U.S. tax breaks for Tesla cars are about to decrease. WATCH: 7-year-old caught on camera stealing cellphone A video of a young child stealing a cellphone from a hair salon in Chatsworth, near Durban has gone viral online. WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. NASCAR Welcome to the adrenaline-fuelled world of NASCAR and the people who keep the cars on the oval. Bicycle comeback in Beijing? Beijing was once filled with bicycles. But as prosperity grew, those who could swapped their bikes for automobiles. Now bike-share systems have hit the scene. Will two-wheeled transportation soon rule the roads in China's capital once again? Why trucks trump cars for European investors Swedish truck maker Volvo has forecast slower demand for trucks in Europe and China next year.  But its profits are up - and as Julian Satterthwaite reports, investors are finding plenty of reasons to get on board truck makers, rather than their rivals in the car sector. VW outlook dims despite Q2 profit beat Volkswagen posted a forecast-beating 23 percent rise in underlying quarterly operating profit. But, the carmaker has cited difficulties conforming to new anti-pollution rules, clouding the sales outlook for passenger cars. China cuts duty on U.S. car imports Auto sales in slow lane, low demand and high rates dent autos. Auto sales in the slow lane Tepid demand for passenger cars Protesters set cars on fire in Paris A car is set on fire on Saturday on Hoche avenue, close to Champs-Elysées avenue, as Paris was hit by violence in the latest demonstrations against President Emmanuel Macron. Best winter getaway cars for less than GBP10,000 If you're planning to hit the road for leisure in the coming months, it would be worth having a car that can face the conditions. Here are some sub-GBP10,000 used cars that are up to the task. Tuning Heaven - the 2018 Essen Motor Show If it has to do with cars, and it's fun, it can be found at the Essen Motor Show. This festival for automobile and tuning fans just had its 51st edition in early December. The 500-plus exhibitors had something for all the 360,000 visitors. WATCH: Fender bender escalates into physical altercation between motorist North West police are urging the public to avoid taking the law into their own hands, after two motorists were involved in a physical altercation following a collision at a petrol station. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. What you should know about cruising with MSC Musica in South Africa Gabi Zietsman from Traveller24 visited the MSC Musica in Durban's port for the launch of the summer cruise season in South Africa, and picked up a few tips for first-time passengers. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Best winter-ready convertibles you can buy Convertibles aren't the first cars that come to mind in the winter, but there are some that are more than capable in the snow and ice. Clever way to get the snow off the roof Man in a car hits the building to get the snow off the roof. Truck hits car Truck loses control and hits a parked car. Truck loses control at junction Truck loses control at junction and hits some cars. London mayor launches new electric car charging ports around the city Sadiq Khan has launched 51 new rapid charging points in London, which he hopes will help encourage people to get electric vehicles. They can charge vehicles like the new electric taxi up to full in just thirty minutes. Andorra hosts first ever electric vehicle snow race Electric vehicles are put to the test in this EV Snow Grand Prix, in an attempt to raise awareness for the capabilities, speed and acceleration of electric vehicles. Organisers hope that showing off the potential of electric vehicles will encourag... Hate parking? This car shrinks itself to fit The latest entry into the market for tiny cars that can fit into tiny parking spaces may come from Israel, with a concept electric vehicle that can shrink its wheelbase to the size of a motorcycle. Matthew Larotonda reports Costa Rica hopes for greener future with electric cars Electric vehicles are slowly gaining space in the congested streets of Costa Rica, a country that prides itself on being an ecological paradise, with 600 vehicles running on electricity rather than petrol, which is double last year's number. WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. Tesco, Volkswagen to develop UK electric vehicle charging network Britain's biggest retailer Tesco has announced a deal with German automaker Volkswagen to develop 2,400 charging bays at 600 Tesco stores across the UK over the next three year. Francis Maguire reports on an industry in the midst of an electric revol Bye Bye Car Driverless cars will be how we move around in the future. In 10 years' time, Ford Motors' Bill Ford says his company will sell mobility, not cars. We ask the experts, including Tesla pioneer Elon Musk, what they think the future has in store for us. Dramatic car crash involving 19 vehicles takes place in Kiev Nineteen vehicles were damaged in a huge car accident in Kiev's Pechersk neighbourhood. Vehicles piled on-top of one another after the driver of a KAMAZ crane reportedly lost control of his vehicle, later claiming that his brakes had failed. Motorist storms runway of Lyon airport during intense police chase A 31-year old man rammed into a fence in Lyon international airport after entering the runway. Dozens of police and security officers on cars, motorcycles and even a helicopter took part in the operation. The offender left the car and attempted to... New petrol and diesel vehicles to be banned from 2040 in bid to tackle pollution New diesel and petrol cars and vans will be banned from 2040 as part of efforts to tackle air pollution, UK Environment Secretary Michael Gove has said. He also pledged to work with local authorities developing diesel scrappage schemes. Auto sales depict worrying trend Passenger vehicles sales down in Nov because of muted festive season, Inventory build-up has led to production cuts to correct inventories, says Vishnu Mathur, Director General, SIAM. U.S. plans to rewrite rules that impede self-driving cars The Trump administration is moving ahead with plans to revise safety rules that bar fully self-driving cars from the roads without equipment such as steering wheels, pedals and mirrors. Toyota, SoftBank team up as push to self-drive accelerates Toyota and SoftBank say they will team up to develop car services that rely on self-driving technology, such as hospital shuttles, as they envision a future in which fewer people drive their own vehicles. As David Pollard reports, the partnership ... WATCH: 'There's no outbreak of salmonella in KZN' – health department tries to quell fears There have been a number of laboratory-confirmed cases of salmonella in Durban but there is no "outbreak" of infections in the province, KwaZulu-Natal health authorities said on Monday. Truck tyre goes flying A car avoids being hit by a truck tyre. Vietnam's first domestic car manufacturer bets big at Paris Motor Show Vietnam's first fully-fledged carmaker presented two vehicles at the Paris Motor Show on Tuesday.  As David Pollard reports, VinFast, a unit of Vietnam's largest conglomerate Vingroup JSC, aims to produce 250,000 cars annually in the next five yea... WATCH: Behind the scenes at the De Hoek plaza The De Hoek Plaza located in Heidelburg, Gauteng, on a normal day in December 5, 2017 saw 715 motor vehicles pass the tolls at 3pm and saw 2,621 motor vehicles pass through its lanes on it busiest day December 22, 2017, during the same hour. The 'Jack Rabbit' could change urban transport as we know it Is it a bike, is it a scooter... no, it's called the 'Jack Rabbit'. This two-wheeled wonder is described as "a simple, compact, nimble and affordable electric vehicle for campus, urban and community mobility". Ferrari plans 15 new models, SUV to drive earnings growth Ferrari plans to launch 15 new models, including hybrid cars, a utility vehicle and more special editions as part of its new chief executive's efforts to double core earnings by 2022. As Sonia Legg reports, the supercar maker shifted to a guidance... Trump says China to cut tariffs on U.S.-made autos after trade war truce China has agreed to "reduce and remove" tariffs below the 40 percent level that Beijing is currently charging on U.S.-made vehicles, U.S. President Donald Trump said, as a trade war truce between the two countries gathers pace, cheering markets.  As BMW introduces wireless car charger BMW is introducing the first wireless car charger. It is available under its 'i' Division, which covers all its hybrid and electric vehicles. Lit Motors - Super-Shrinking the City Car One company wants to reinvent urban transportation by developing a fully enclosed, two-wheeled electric vehicle that puts less car and more people on the road. 'I dream of being an astronaut' – Durban matriculant with 11 distinctions A Durban matriculant who achieved 11 distinctions in 2017's IEB examinations says she dreams of being an astronaut. Nissan unveils hybrid snowmobile sports car With snow hitting many parts of the UK at the moment, drivers could do with vehicles designed to better cope with powder.

Fortunately, enough, Nissan has created just such a car. Called the 370Zki, it's part-sports car, part snowmobile. Tesla buys land in Shanghai Tesla has signed an agreement with the Shanghai government for a plot of land to build its first overseas $2 billion Gigafactory. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.