Kaveel Singh Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man trying to stay cool during the blistering Durban December heat drowned on Tuesday. An early morning dip in the ocean for three friends ended in tragedy on Durban's popular North Beach, near the Joe Cools restaurant. One of the men allegedly got into difficulty and disappeared below the surface. Police divers from the Durban Search and Rescue Unit conducted a search, but failed to find the man. In a separate incident at Dakota Beach lagoon in Isipingo, the body of a man was recovered on a sandbank, also by the Search and Rescue Unit. ALSO READ: Girl, 11, survives near drowning in KZN KwaZulu-Natal police have warned holidaymakers to be cautious during the festive period, particularly in the often unpredictable ocean waters. Hundreds of thousands of South Africans have flocked to the KwaZulu-Natal coast for their holidays, with most expected to begin the festive revelries this week. WATCH: Dead sailor found on yacht washed ashore in KZN A dead sailor, found aboard a yacht that washed ashore at a beach in Southbroom on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast on Saturday, has been identified, provincial police have confirmed. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking. WATCH: 'Ho, ho, whoooa!' - NSRI to the rescue as Santa slips and stumbles off boat A jolly Santa Claus managed to do what he does best at a beach in Cape Town this weekend, putting smiles on many children's faces in a rather unexpected fashion. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. Lions suspected in drowning of 400 buffaloes in Botswana More than 400 buffaloes believed to have been chased by lions drown in a river in northern Botswana. The mass drowning occurred on Tuesday night in Chobe River on the border with Namibia. Buffalo river drownings are not uncommon in the region, but... Two cops jump into the sea to rescue drowning kangaroo A kangaroo with an apparent love of the sea was rescued from the waves by two police officers in Melbourne. Newborn zebra saved from drowning Animal handlers from BIOPARC Valencia in Spain save a newborn zebra. The colt accidentally fell into an estuary. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. A Holidaymaker's Guide to South Africa's Wild Coast The weather's always good on the Wild Coast, and there's so much to explore - all the better when you're on foot!   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.