Riaan Grobler WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Former president Jacob Zuma's brand-new Twitter account.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Zuma's first tweet is a video of himself, in which he says: "Hello, everyone. I have decided to move with times to join this important area of conversation because I hear that many people are talking about me. "I felt it is necessary that I should join in and be part of the conversation. READ: #ZumaRecallMovies: Twitter has a laugh while we wait "It's me, the former president, Jacob Zuma," he announces in the 45-second clip. Zuma's second tweet contains a reference to a bank account number, said to be used to raise funds for his legal fees, which Zuma claims is false. On Thursday, the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria ruled that Zuma would be personally liable for his legal fees. The former president's handle, @PresJGZuma, is the same for his brand-new Twitter, Instagram and Facebook fan accounts. He also has a personal Facebook account where he has to date added 21 friends. ALSO READ: Twitter reacts to Zuma's resignation   Former government communications head Mzwanele Manyi, who infamously bought the now defunct Gupta media empire, was quick to announce the news on Twitter.  Former president Jacob Zuma's updated Facebook profile pic. (Facebook)  WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. WATCH: Mickey Mouse gets an African makeover in time for his 90th birthday Iconic Disney character Mickey Mouse has been given a makeover, African style - and it's in time for his 90th birthday. WATCH: Protesting Queenstown farmers use their cattle to block the roads Farmers from Queenstown, now called Komani in the Eastern Cape took the streets on Wednesday, demanding that municipality provide them with more land for grazing. WATCH: Langa residents loot hijacked, abandoned truck Residents in Langa took advantage of a hijacked truck in Cape Town on Wednesday after stealing goods from the abandoned vehicle. WATCH: Police use stun grenades to disperse picketing MyCiti protesters Police have fired stun grenades at MyCiti bus drivers on strike in the Cape Town CBD. WATCH: 'That children are being trained to do this is horrible' - Spur handbag theft victim A "family" of thieves seemingly worked together to steal an unsuspecting woman's handbag from a restaurant over the weekend. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.