Kaveel Singh WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. The Durban woman hijacked in Morningside (Yusuf Abramjee, Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A KwaZulu-Natal man alleged to have links to the abduction and hijacking of a Durban businesswoman appeared briefly in the Durban Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. Asibonge Mdlalose, 28, is accused of kidnapping and robbery with aggravating circumstances following the much publicised abduction of 54-year-old Marta Rubilar. Following a frantic search on Friday, authorities found Rubilar safe in the Newlands area. She had been hijacked and abducted in the affluent Morningside area. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane previously said that she was leaving her business when she was attacked. Four men armed with handguns had accosted her. A video of the incident shows the men first grabbing the shocked woman's car keys. They appear to only want to take the vehicle, but one of the men then grabs Rubilar and they bundle her into her car, before speeding off. Mdlalose will appear again on December 18. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: Family taken hostage during hijacking Police are looking for five suspects who hijacked and kidnapped a family of three - a couple and their child - in Constantia Kloof, West Rand over the weekend. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. What's it like to be kidnapped? The death penalty has been introduced for kidnapping after a spate of abductions in Lagos, Nigeria. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.