Melanie Gosling, Correspondent Ayoba, one of the African penguin sperm donors. (Photo supplied, Two Oceans Aquarium) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Test-tube babies for African penguins? Penguin sperm banks? Sounds far-fetched. But a researcher at the University of the Western Cape has taken the first step towards in vitro fertilisation of these threatened birds. "That's my dream, to be able to do that for these threatened African penguins. It's never been done before for this species and that is my goal," said Patrick Siyambulela Mafunda. His doctoral thesis has laid the foundation. Mafunda spent two years developing a protocol to preserve African penguin sperm, using semen from two penguins at the Two Oceans Aquarium. "The African penguin is Africa's only penguin species and it is listed as an endangered species. So if we don't come up with good plans to conserve these animals, they'll be extinct soon,” Mafunda said. While there have been many studies done on the conservation of this species, there were none on the reproductive biology. "We needed to understand the reproductive biology if we are going to help preserve the species, especially if we want to do in vitro fertilisation eventually.” WATCH: Penguins caught in fishing nets, malnourished & thrown overboard find solace in CT Mafunda's two sperm donors were Ayoba and Agape, whose home is Cape Town's Two Ocean's Aquarium. It's a tricky business, dealing with penguins, as they can give a mean "bite" and use their claws to scratch. The first part of the research was to describe the histology and ultra-structural features of the birds' testes and ovaries, which Mafunda did from dead penguins from Sanccob rehabilitation centre in Tableview. "Some of the penguins had to be euthanised because they were too weak to survive in the wild." The next part of the research was to find out when they breed, to collect semen and to find a way to preserve it for future insemination. Mafunda had to take blood samples from the penguins' feet for hormonal profiles, and collect fresh faeces, which involves waiting around and then grabbing the penguin poo as soon as it lands. Breeding seasons The penguins have two breeding seasons: a short season in January and February, and a longer one from August to November. Getting the sperm involved a particular type of abdominal massage. This Mafunda did not do himself as in order to reduce stress on the birds, it was important that it was done by one of the aquarium staff who the penguins knew and saw daily. "So I trained them in the massage technique. The penguins became very friendly then, they enjoyed it. Generally, the African penguin is not friendly." Once he had the semen in a specimen jar, Mafunda had to rush back to his laboratory at UWC as quickly as possible for analysis. But there was another obstacle in his way: the Fees Must Fall protest action that led to universities closing at times. "For two years, Fees Must Fall action would occur at the same time as the penguin breeding season, making it very difficult to get my work done. January was chaos. I was so frustrated, because to do this research I had to have a lot of samples." In the end, he managed to get enough to carry on with the project.  Agape, one of the African penguin sperm donors. (Photo supplied, Two Oceans Aquarium) "I am very happy with the results. We developed a way to preserve semen and to create a biobank. That is important because if the species numbers drop even more, and in vitro fertilisation becomes an option, this research has provided a foundation for other areas of research." Mafunda, whose background is in medical bioscience, comes from the small town of Matatiele in the Eastern Cape, near the Lesotho border. WATCH: Penguins put best foot forward in daily parade through aquarium "It was always my dream to move into research, but I did not really pay much attention to natural environment. Then, when I was reading a government publication, I came across an article about a biodiversity management plan, and read that the African penguin is the only one on the continent, and I became interested." From that, he developed his thesis topic. "Now that I've got to understand more about the environment, I realise why it is so important to teach people about it, because there are just so many threats - plastic pollution for instance." The African penguin occurs in Namibia and South Africa. In historic times, numbers were estimated to be around one million birds, but those numbers have since plummeted. Reasons include reduced food availability around breeding colonies, predation by seals and kelp gulls, and oil spills. Researcher Rob Crawford recorded a collapse of penguin numbers in South Africa from about 56 000 breeding pairs in 2001 to 21 000 pairs in 2009 – a loss of 35 000 pairs (more than 60%) in just eight years. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Life Beyond a Gender Label Some people might shrug it off as a fad; others take the path of self-righteousness and judgment. Bossy: Artificial, intelligent and female Siri, Alexa, Cortana - the default voice of most digital assistants is female, polite and deferential. Why is artificial intelligence female? Is it because the workforce developing it is predominantly male? Japanese employees on a pregancy rota Japanese employers are forcing women, especially in nurseries and hospitals, to follow a 'pregnancy rota' in order to conceive babies - all so the employees don't take maternity leave when they want to. T Down's Syndrome model steals the show at London Kids' Fashion Week A mother who discovered her IVF baby had Down's Syndrome an hour after her birth - then being told she may never walk or talk - proudly watched her modelling at London Kids' Fashion Week.

A runway star at just six years old, Roni Littman's big br... Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. B-wom tells us why an app can be a girl's best friend B-wom is a Barcelona-based digital coach for women's well-being. The app offers personalized guidance on intimate female health issues -- such as how to perform pelvic floor exercises to improve your sex life or for pregnancy aftercare. We chat to... AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday Penguins predict England win over Sweden SeaLife Birmingham's Gentoo penguins predict an England win over Sweden in Saturday's World Cup quarter-final. Premature penguin saved by heroic keepers Rainbow the Humboldt penguin defied the odds at ZSL London Zoo's Penguin Beach when keepers found a broken egg and got her safely out of the shell and into an incubator. Baby gentoo penguin takes first swim at Sea Life London A gentoo chick takes its first swim in Sea Life London Aquarium's deep pool.

The baby penguin was welcomed into the world in early July, the first to be born in the capital's attraction this year, weighing a tiny 105g. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. London Zoo animals open Christmas treats The Humboldt penguin colony, Asiatic lionesses and squirrel monkeys at the ZSL London Zoo recieve treats and open the, for Christmas. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. Pregnant Poppas: the Underknown Sex Life of the Male Seahorse Sometimes nature likes to mix things up a bit. Could you see a human male being pregnant? In the seahorse world, that's how life works. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. Cardi B's pregnancy stops her getting intimate Cardi B has candidly told her social media followers she is dying to have sex with her husband Offest, but her burgeoning baby bump is getting in the way. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. Chrissy Teigen wants lots of kids Mother-of-one Chrissy Teigen wants to be "pregnant for the rest of her life" and can't wait to have another child. The Assisted Reproduction Industry It's big business and it's growing. Specialist clinics adopt ever more sophisticated methods and make a pile of money in the process. DW visits one and talks to the staff there. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. WATCH: Protesting Queenstown farmers use their cattle to block the roads Farmers from Queenstown, now called Komani in the Eastern Cape took the streets on Wednesday, demanding that municipality provide them with more land for grazing.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.