Omega Ngema MPL Mbali Fraiser addresses motorists at the Festive season road safety campaign near Port Edward this week. PHOTOS: omega ngema Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE KZN legislature Portfolio Committee on Transport deputy chairperson Mbali Fraiser sent out a “stern warning” to all motorists who did not abide by the rules of the road, saying that they would be brought to justice. Fraiser said this while addressing a media briefing at a festive season road safety awareness campaign on the R61 between Port Edward and the Wild Coast Sun on Tuesday, December 11. Officials from the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal SAPS, Road Traffic Inspectorate (RTI) and municipal traffic officers from various municipalities accompanied representatives from the KZN legislature lead by Fraiser. The campaign took the form of a stop and search with officials performing inspections of roadworthiness of motor vehicles, drunk and driving, and all other forms of irresponsible use of motor vehicles. Several motorists who were non-compliant with the required regulations were arrested and/or fined. Fraiser said she noted with concern that a taxi driver who was not in possession of a driving permit could not be promptly attended to because the wing responsible for these particular cases was not present at the road block. “It was a grave disappointment to find that a certain wing was not present to address an issue at the road block. “It is important that whenever we conduct these campaigns all the necessary officials are present,” said Fraiser. She noted that the season unfortunately had a sad start in the province, as records showed that at least 24 people have died in road accidents in KZN over the past weekend alone. “It is disappointing to hear of these statistics because, even though we may try our best to raise awareness about road safety through such campaigns, motorists still continue to break the rules,” said Fraiser.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.