Jenna Etheridge Rob Packham in court on Friday (Jenna Etheridge, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Western Cape police have confirmed that a 57-year-old man who is awaiting trial for murder has been rearrested. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said the man was arrested on Wednesday morning. "Please be advised that a 57-year-old man was arrested this morning on a warrant of arrest and he is expected to appear in the [Western] Cape High Court on Tuesday." The court issued the warrant. News24 reliably understands that the arrested man is former Cape Town cool drink company manager Rob Packham, and that the warrant was issued because he allegedly violated bail conditions by contacting State witnesses. This is the second time he has been rearrested. A warrant of arrest was first issued in September for breaching his bail conditions. When he appeared in court, Judge Nathan Erasmus heard that Packham had made contact with his mistress and several colleagues at his old workplace Twizza. Erasmus said at the time: "It is common cause that you have breached bail conditions. There is an absolute bar on communication, direct or indirect, with certain witnesses who are listed. "If you do anything, and I caution you, you will lose your bail money and you will be kept in custody until the end of your trial." Western Cape National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said on Wednesday morning: "I can officially confirm that we will ask the court to withdraw his bail as he has breached his bail conditions and for him to be kept in prison". Packham's lawyer Ben Mathewson has not yet responded to a request for comment. The accused has been under house arrest, pending his trial for the murder of his wife Gill Packham in March. Gill Packham disappeared on February 22 and her body was found in the boot of a burnt out BMW near Diep River train station. According to the indictment, her husband allegedly used a blunt object to hit her on the head and, with the alleged intention of obstructing the course of justice, set alight the BMW while her body was inside it. Bail conditions He also allegedly gave the police false information to mislead them during the investigation. The Zimbabwe-born businessman, who previously worked for women's cosmetics company Estée Lauder, had to hand in his Audi Q5 for the investigation. He last worked as a manager for beverage company Twizza. The accused was initially granted R50 000 bail, with conditions, after he was arrested earlier this year. His bail was increased to R75 000 with more stringent conditions after he was re-arrested for contacting State witnesses, including a woman with whom he had been having an extramarital affair. As part of his revised bail conditions, he is allowed to visit a shopping centre in Wynberg once a week for three hours, visit a medical practitioner in Wynberg for emergencies, visit his psychologist in Rondebosch once a week, travel to his lawyers to prepare for his case and attend church service every Sunday. He also has to inform his investigating officer from his landline whenever he leaves home and returns, as well as report to the Diep River police station every day. Packham had to hand over all his electronic devices to his lawyer. In addition, police can search his property at any time for similar devices. WATCH: Prodigious python causes stir in Kathu A prodigious python, filmed slithering up a tree, caused quite a stir in the small town of Kathu in the Northern Cape. Keighley residents react to May's decision to delay Brexit vote In Keighley, a town in Yorkshire in northern England that voted in favour of Brexit in the 2016 referendum, residents express skepticism about Prime Minster Theresa May's latest decision to delay a vote in parliament on her Brexit deal and seek "r... Sleepless in Berlin! What to do when you can't sleep at night? Count sheep? Well if you're Olaf KRIEGER you hit the town. And he's clearly not alone - it feels like the whole city is awake. Don't waste your time, make the most of your nights! WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Chaos ensues during police operation in Parow A video of a police operation escalating into violence in Parow, Cape Town on Saturday has gone viral on social media. WATCH: 'Ho, ho, whoooa!' - NSRI to the rescue as Santa slips and stumbles off boat A jolly Santa Claus managed to do what he does best at a beach in Cape Town this weekend, putting smiles on many children's faces in a rather unexpected fashion. Fiji beat the USA 29-15 to win the Cape Town Sevens Fiji thrashed the USA 29-15 to win the World Rugby Sevens title in Cape Town on Sunday, their first victory in the city. Kalione Nasoko and Valimoni Botitu both scored two tries as Fiji enjoyed their first World Rugby Sevens Series victory in Sout... 'The King' of the road: German town puts Elvis on traffic lights Cross the road, it's now or never. Or that's what residents in the German town of Friedberg may start humming when their traffic light jumps to green to reveal a hip-swivelling Elvis Presley. Children among dead in Italy nightclub stampede Five children among dead after Italy nightclub stampede. The tragedy at a venue in the Adriatic town of Corinaldo, near Ancona, also left a woman dead and dozens of people injured, some seriously. Christmas tradition: Nuremberg gingerbread The southern German town of Nuremberg has been known for its gingerbread since the Middle Ages. It's a Christmas specialty that can be enjoyed at the local festive "Christkindlesmarkt". Ozil decision 'tomorrow' as midfielder faces late fitness test Arsenal head coach Unai Emery called on the club's supporters to get behind the team in Saturday's home game against Huddersfield Town, to help finish off a series of three games in seven days with seven points following the 4-2 victory in the Nor... WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. 'Our people shouldn't have to travel hours to work' - Ramaphosa launches Atlantis economic hub "Our people shouldn't have to travel for hours and hours to work." That was the message from President Cyril Ramaphosa at the launch of the Atlantis Special Economic Zone in Cape Town on Thursday. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. Lifeline helps a 92-year-old see her husband There are no buses in this Yorkshire town but locals are finding their own way to get around. Tour a loft in Stockholm's Old Town When their second child was born, Nina and Jacob Salo knew they needed more space. So, with the help of architects, they used the generous loft above their apartment to create a flat that's big enough for the family. Replica Of A 1950s Town Is Helping People With Dementia Remember A 9,000-square-foot replica of a 1950s-era town has been designed to jog the memories of people with dementia, by surrounding them with familiar places and activities from their past. WATCH: Empowerment workshop brings out the Mandela in Cape Town youth In honour of Mandela Day, young people from around Cape Town were invited to a youth empowerment workshop at Cape Town Civic Centre on Tuesday. WATCH: Cape Town bicycle shop looted by rowdy revellers Festivities in the Cape Town CBD turned to looting, with one group causing damages of nearly R170 000 in mere minutes.

Rook Cycles in Long Street has shared CCTV footage of the looting on their Facebook page. Lufthansa's sparkling new A350 turns heads with new livery in Cape Town Lufthansa's has deployed one of their new A350s to their Cape Town-Munich route, and its premium style is mixed with comfort for all cabin classes. Zakopane: Poland's winter sports capital The Polish town of Zakopane, situated in the High Tatra Mountains, is ideal for skiing and tobogganing. The town is known for its traditional wooden houses and yummy cuisine. Rothenburg's Christmas Market Franconian grilled sausages are a traditional favorite at the Christmas market in Rothenburg ob der Tauber. The idyllic Bavarian town is as pretty as a picture at Christmas. How This Sleepy Fishing Town Became a Surfer's Paradise The residents of Nazare, Portugal lived comfortably in their sleepy villages, but they all had one common fear: The sea's gigantic waves. Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. Week ahead: US trade & jobs, OPEC get first call US trade data and the November US jobs report put the debate over the strength of the world's largest economy at the top of agenda this week.  And, as David Pollard reports, oil markets are waiting to see what action OPEC might take to slow a downwar WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town. PCSO punched in face as officers surrounded in Co Durham Sergeant Emma Kay of Durham Constabulary asks parents to help keep their children out of trouble and the streets of Stanley safe amid disturbances in the town centre.

After a number of shocking incidents, the worst of which involved up to 100 tee... Trump coy on China trade deal U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he was open to a trade deal with China but was not sure he wanted one, as he headed to Argentina for the G20 summit and a meeting with President Xi Jingping. Ukraine military carries out exercises amid Russia tensions The Ukrainian military carries out exercises in the town of Urzuf, between the ports of Berdyansk and Mariupol amid high tensions with Russia. Moscow and Kiev have traded angry accusations since Russian navy vessels fired on, boarded and captured ... WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Elon Musk ducks out of one LA tunnel but pursues another Billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk has scrapped plans for a high-speed passenger tunnel under the West side of Los Angeles but is moving ahead with a similar proposal across town designed to whisk baseball fans to and from Dodger Stadium. How Saul Klein (LocalGlobe) invests in seed stage companies Saul Klein (@cape) explains how @localglobevc evaluates seed stage companies #TCDisrupt Saul Klein (LocalGlobe) on the tech impact of Brexit Saul Klein (@cape) of LocalGlobe breaks down how Brexit will impact the future of the UK's tech investment economy #TCDisrupt Cyclist has close call with oncoming train A cyclist in the Netherlands had a harrowing close call with an oncoming train. 

The incident took place recently at a crossing in Geleen, a town in the southern province of Limburg. El Salvador's 'vigilante' mayor battling the gangs Mauricio Vilanova is no typical small-town mayor. The 60-year-old patrols the streets of El Salvador's San Jose Guayabal in a 4x4 vehicle wearing a bulletproof vest and carrying an automatic rifle. IKEA is having a rethink, and it's proving costly IKEA Group said on Wednesday large investments in improving its online offering, delivery services and in opening new smaller city centre stores to meet changing shopping habits pulled its full-year profits down 26 percent. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Australia's Great Barrier Reef Biggest coral reseeding project launches on Great Barrier Reef. The Australia's Great Barrier in videographic. Australia's Great Barrier Reef Biggest coral reseeding project launches on Great Barrier Reef. The Australia's Great Barrier in videographic. Bhumi & Shamita turns SEXY for couture event Celebrities like Shamita Shetty, Randeep Hooda, Sophie Choudry, Harshvardhan Rane, Jackky Bhagnani, Prateik Babbbar, Huma Qureshi & Bhumi Pednekar attended the launch. Bhumi Pednekar, who will next be seen in Son Chiriya, wearing a stunning gold c... Argentina economic woes exacerbate life in Zavaleta shanty town The residents of Argentina's Zavaleta, a poor neighborhood in Buenos Aires crippled by drug gangs and addicts, were already struggling even before the recent economic crisis, but now the shanty town's 1,200 families face the added daily struggle o... Returnees count cost of destruction in Libya's Tawergha Returning home after seven years in a camp for displaced people, Libyans from the town of Tawergha struggle to eke out a living in their vandalized land and properties. After being chased away by militia from the nearby city of Misrata, the displa... Migrants push on to US-Meixco border bridge as US holds drills Tension mounted as hundreds of Central American migrants massed at a Mexican border town headed on for a bridge crossing to the United States as President Donald Trump renewed his threats to repel them. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. John Barrowman conquers Scary Rose Trial John Barrowman managed to secure an impressive 10 stars as he took on a Bushtucker Trial on 'I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here'. Search teams with cadaver dogs seek fire victims As the search for human remains continues in the burned town of Paradise, fire officials in Northern California say some remains of the missing may never be found. Native people finally heard in Plymouth's 400th The seaside town where the Pilgrims came ashore in 1620 is making sure Native Americans aren't an afterthought in its 400th anniversary commemoration. US soldiers wait for migrant caravan in Texan border town About a hundred US soldiers have been deployed to Laredo, Texas, carrying out controversial orders from President Donald Trump, to forestall the arrival of large groups of Central American migrants traveling through Mexico and towards the US. US authorities continue to have strong presence at the border US border police and other agents continue to mass and patrol the US-Mexico border, which has seen about 5,900 active-duty troops sent there in the name of national security, as thousands of migrants have arrived in the Mexican border town of Tiju... WATCH: Stun grenades fired, rocks hurled in tense standoff between police and MyCiTi strikers Striking MyCiTi workers have been released from the Cape Town civic centre, after the building was placed on lockdown when protests began on the ground floor.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.