Pelane Phakgadi Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha. (Sandile Ndlovu, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Those who are corruptible should not be called members of the African National Congress (ANC). This was said by Limpopo premier and ANC provincial chairperson Stan Mathabatha on Sunday as he paid tribute to slain councillor Thabang Maupa, who was killed by unknown gunmen on November 28. READ: Murdered Limpopo ANC councillor 'first fatality' of VBS scandal - reports Maupa, a councillor in the Fetakgomo-Tubatse local municipality, was known for being a staunch critic of those who had links to, or illegally deposited money into the now liquidated VBS Mutual Bank. WATCH: VBS lead investigator Terry Motau live on News24 The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) dropped an explosive report into looting at VBS Mutual Bank this week.

The report, by advocate Terry Motau, details the transactions that led to a collapse of the financial institution. Mathabatha said that Maupa understood clearly that being an ANC cadre came with great responsibility in terms of being a public servant and speaking out against corruption. The premier made a promise to mourners and the Maupa family that everyone in the party who had been implicated in the VBS looting would be dealt with. "I must say that next year when we are going to elections, most of the people who have been implicated in the VBS forensic report will not be with us," Mathabatha said. "We will make sure that they are not with us," he added, to applause from mourners. READ: VBS scandal: Limpopo premier at pains to explain why no action has been taken against mayors, politicians Some of those implicated in the VBS report commissioned by Advocate Terry Motau include Mathabatha's deputy chairperson in the provincial ANC, Florence Radzilani, and treasurer Danny Msiza. Radzilani and Msiza were also barred from the list conference which convened over the weekend. READ: ANC Limpopo bars VBS linked officials from attending list conference That move by the provincial executive committee of the ANC followed the party's integrity commission recommendation that the duo "step aside" from all party activities until their names have been cleared. ALSO READ: Tussle continues between ANC leaders in Limpopo Mathabatha told the media on the sidelines of the list conference, that "..comrades that have been implicated should not get voting statuses (at the list conference) until the PEC meets on Monday". “If you agree to subject yourself to this ANC process today, you must be willing to take your mandate and be directed by the wisdom of both Frans Mohlala House & Luthuli House” #ANCLimpopo Chair, Chupu Mathabatha, Opening Address of the Provincial List Conference, 8 Dec 2018 pic.twitter.com/oJNqKl56Vy He said the PEC meeting will look to "analyse and interpret the matter, and implement the resolutions of the National Working Committee (NWC)". The NWC recommended the implementation of recommendations made by the integrity committee to have the pair set aside in party activities. WATCH: EFF expected to address VBS claims The Economic Freedom Fighters will on Tuesday address the media on the VBS Mutual Bank report released by the South African Reserve Bank last, titled The Great Bank Heist. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.