Riaan Grobler Marital rape victim sentenced to death for killing husband A marital rape victim in Sudan was sentenced to death for killing her husband who tried to rape her for the second time. iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 46-year-old Eastern Cape man has been arrested by Centane police for allegedly raping his estranged wife. According to spokesperson Captain Jackson Manatha, the couple was separated. The 35-year-old victim went to the home of the suspect to collect her belongings on Tuesday at around 11:00. The man then tried to persuade the woman to take him back, but she turned him down. READ: 'If walls could talk' - woman who was allegedly raped, impregnated, beaten by her father "It is alleged that the suspect accosted the victim and raped her. The crime was committed at Mthwaku Locality, Feni Village, Centane," Manatha said. "It is not clear if the relatives of the suspect were around when the alleged rape was committed." The woman has opened a case of rape against her husband, who was arrested on Tuesday evening. "The suspect will appear before the Centane Magistrate's Court on Thursday on a rape charge," Manatha said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 1 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.
Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  