Kaveel Singh Mohammed Ebrahim, the man accused of kidnapping and murdering Durban boy Miguel Louw, appears in the Durban Magistrate's Court. (Tania Broughton, News24 Correspondent) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Durban man accused of kidnapping Miguel Louw, 10, has officially been arrested for the murder of the young boy. Mohammed Ebrahim, 43, was dramatically taken into custody by investigating officers following a brief appearance in the Durban Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. READ: Tears and heartache at Miguel Louw's funeral Outside the court, detective Rajem Govender read Ebrahim his rights and said he would be taken for processing at the Durban Central police station and would return to Regional Court for the murder charge. News24 understands he will appear in Regional Court for the new charge on Wednesday. A well-dressed Ebrahim appeared confused and unsure but complied with the authorities. WATCH:  Mohammed Ebrahim, has officially been arrested for the murder of Miguel Louw. He was out on bail and taken after his appearance in the Durban Magistrate's Court. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/ILrzD5DYdN  Louw went missing on July 17 in Sydenham. He was believed to have been kidnapped shortly after leaving school. Three days later, Ebrahim was arrested, but he denied any knowledge of Louw's location. The decomposed body of the young boy was found on September 3 in a park on Longbury Drive in Phoenix, a stone's throw from Louw's home. Ebrahim was out on R2 500 bail. Ebrahim, who was allegedly the last person seen with the boy, appeared in court on human trafficking charges. Video footage allegedly shows Ebrahim buying Louw some KFC near his school in Rippon Road in Sydenham. However, it was not clear whether the boy entered a taxi with Ebrahim after visiting the KFC. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  