Canny Maphanga WATCH: Behind the scenes at the De Hoek plaza The De Hoek Plaza located in Heidelburg, Gauteng, on a normal day in December 5, 2017 saw 715 motor vehicles pass the tolls at 3pm and saw 2,621 motor vehicles pass through its lanes on it busiest day December 22, 2017, during the same hour. N3 Route, De Hoek Plaza (Canny Maphanga) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Load shedding is having a negative impact on operations at De Hoek Plaza - one of the four mainline plazas on the N3 route from Heidelberg, Gauteng to Cedara, KwaZulu-Natal. So says the National Toll Concession (N3TC). "Right now it (load shedding) has placed us under immense pressure but we are working hard to make sure there are no delays ahead of the festive season," operations manager Tania Dhoogra told News24 on Tuesday. While the plaza enjoys its own standby power system in the form of generators and Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) which can carry the load, the intention is not to survive on these systems. "The intention is not for them to be operated in the manner that they are being operated, however. Load shedding puts a lot of strain on the components that are being tested on a constant basis," Dhoogra added. This leads to failures during load shedding because the back-up systems are used for an extensive period of time, according to the operations manager. "We then have to go into what we call a manual mode scenario where we have to process the traffic by manually recording the transaction details. That requires a little bit more patience from our motorists," she explained. However, the constraint doesn’t affect motorists who make use of e-tags. "What we can do is record either your tag number or we will take an imprint of your credit card details with a signature from the customer authorising us to create that transaction manually," she elaborated. It will also not significantly affect the turnaround time for transactions at De Hoek Plaza, according to Dhoogra. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Eskom confirms stage 2 load shedding for Tuesday She was speaking at De Hoek Plaza in Heidelberg, Gauteng at the start of a media tour on the national route aimed at highlighting the challenges faced on the road ahead of the busy 2018 festive season. On December 5, 2017 - a normal traffic day - 715 vehicles passed through the toll gates at the plaza between 15:00 and 16:00. On its busiest day in the same year - December 22 - 2 621 vehicles were recorded. The plaza, which employs approximately 300 staff, has since submitted and confirmed its 2018 peak festive traffic planning. The operations manager did not elaborate on the planning. WATCH: Scary dashcam footage shows how two trucks collide head-on in Mpumalanga Two trucks collided head-on and a third was pushed off the road from Bethel to Kriel in Mpumalanga on Friday.

Dashcam footage from one of the trucks showed the chaotic scene, which involved four heavy vehicles taking up two lanes. WATCH: Free State police department confirms sleeping traffic cop is 'on medication' The Free State Department of Police, Roads and Transport has responded to a viral video of a traffic officer apparently caught sleeping on the job. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH: Woman says police forced motorist to withdraw money at road block A video of an altercation between police officers and a woman at the Honeydew police station has gone viral. Cars pass through US-Mexico border after temporary closure Cars pass through the San Ysidro border post -- the busiest crossing on the US-Mexico border -- the day after it was closed to north and south traffic and pedestrians for several hours following several hundred migrants' attempt to cross into the US. WATCH: Strong winds whip Western Cape, blow truck over Strong winds whipping the Western Cape blew a truck over in Klawer on Saturday morning, provincial traffic officials confirmed. WATCH: Eyewitness account of Zimbabwe attack August 1 Zim massacre Horrors from the frontline: On August 01, 2018, my life changed entirely in ways I had not imagined when I woke up that day. A part of me died, while a new me was born out of the horrors I filmed, right from the frontline. WATCH: Taxi driver arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road A taxi driver has been arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road to avoid traffic in Bryanston. The driver was filmed by a biker who forced him to turn around. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. WATCH: Vehicles set alight during apparent housing protest in Nyanga Members of the Ocean View community in Cape Town took to the streets on Thursday to voice their frustrations at shootings and other violence in the area. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  