Alex Mitchley Ambulance. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories At least 13 people have died following a collision between a minibus taxi and car on Saturday evening on the N2 at Canelands, KwaZulu-Natal. According to KZN emergency medical services spokesperson Robert McKenzie, both vehicles caught fire after the accident and the preliminary death toll stands at 13. He added that the exact numbers of the dead cannot be confirmed because of the fires, and that the cause of the accident and the number of dead will be probed in a forensic investigation. Additionally, four survivors were transported to nearby hospitals by paramedics. Earlier on Saturday, seven people were also killed in KZN in a separate crash involving two vehicles on the R614 near Appelsbosch. McKenzie said one other person had sustained critical injuries and was taken to hospital. "The cause of the crash, between a car and bakkie, is unknown at this stage," he said. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: Taxi driver arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road A taxi driver has been arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road to avoid traffic in Bryanston. The driver was filmed by a biker who forced him to turn around. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH: Minibus taxi smashes into Engen garage shop, injuring 2 A minibus taxi crashed into an Engen QuickShop on Saturday evening, after the driver allegedly lost control of the vehicle. He had been filling up his vehicle at the petrol station. WATCH: From Soweto to the skies - entrepreneur creates 'air taxi' business The first black-owned air taxi is bringing affordable flights to more 150 airports across the country. What the CEO Thokozani Miya describes as "Uber in the air". Watch. WATCH: Wily thief nabs SABC camera equipment during #StateCaptureInquiry A wily thief on Monday allegedly stole some of the SABC's camera equipment at the #StateCaptureInquiry. She left the building with a camera bag slung over her shoulder and escaped in a taxi. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. Waymo starts self-driving taxi service in Arizona Alphabet's Waymo launched autonomous cabs in Phoenix, Arizona, that generate revenue. Cabcharge sees revenue growth in 1Q19 22 Nov 2018 - The CEO and Managing Director of Cabcharge (ASX:CAB) has delivered his address at their AGM saying he plans to continue see growth and support taxi networks throughout Australia. All Hail! The 2019 NYC Taxi Drivers Calendar Is Here Forget the hunky firefighters and the pretty pin-ups that typically grace the pages of calendars... What is 'disruption'? It's a term used to describe innovations that have the ability to destroy entire fields. Airbnb capitalization has overtaken that of big hotel chains, autonomous cars could soon put taxi drivers out of business. Who will win, and who will lose? Ive been a bloody brat: Rishi says after meeting Robert De Niro Rishi Kapoor and his actor son Ranbir Kapoor had an impromptu meeting with Hollywood star Robert De Niro here. The Bollywood veteran was impressed by the "Raging Bull" icon's demeanour. Rishi will next be seen in "Rajma Chawal" Thousands of South Korean taxi drivers protest new carpool service South Korean taxi drivers held a rally to demonstrate against a carpooling service which they say would threaten their livelihoods and jobs. Cabcharge acquisition of MTI gets ACCC nod of approval 18 Oct 2018 - The ACCC has given the green light to the proposed $6.6 million acquisition of Mobile Technologies International by Cabcharge (ASX:CAB). Uber drivers strike in Madrid Thousands of Uber and Cabify drivers brought traffic to a stand-still on an avenue in Madrid as they protested government plans to pass a law that will regulate licenses for ride-hailing services. P2P and Telstra partner in digital taxi top delivery 18 Sep 2018 - Telstra (ASX:TLS) and fleet manager P2P (ASX:P2P) have announced a partnership to deliver one of the world's leading digital taxi top advertising solutions to the Australian market. British air taxi firm takes flight, inspired by F1 racing advances A British energy entrepreneur and one-time Formula 1 racing team owner is entering the race to build new inter-city "flying taxi" services that tap recent aerospace advances while steering clear of more fanciful blue-sky visions touted by tech-foc... British startup aims to launch air taxi services by 2022 A British startup has released footage of the UK's first electric vertical take-off and landing aircraft, as it announced plans to have an air taxi service operating short-haul flights by 2022. Hot Pink in Havana Travel to Cuba, with World Nomads’ Stephen Friedman, where he meets a lively, local taxi driver, Michael, who gives him a tour of Havana in his hot pink Buick. Japanese company takes automatic taxi out for test drive ahead of 2020 Olympics Japan tests its automatic taxi, which it hopes will ease preassure on the already stressed industry ahead of the 2020 Olympics. Michelle Hennessy reports Ford tests first hybrid Transit van The Ford Transit Custom PHEV is the world's first hybrid van. It has a 30-mile electric range, and up to 310 miles in range-extender mode. It is set to go into production in 2019. Cohen investigated for $20 mln in loans: NYT According to the New York Times, U.S. President Donald Trumps' former personal lawyer Michael Cohen is being investigated for $20 million taken out in loans. Nebraska carries out 1st U.S. execution using fentanyl The execution of Carey Moore in Nebraska marks the first time any state in the U.S. has used fetanyl in a lethal injection. Pakistan's beautiful bus culture Driving colourfully decorated buses is a passion for some drivers in Pakistan and here's why. Taxi strike targeting Uber brings chaos to Spanish cities Spanish taxi drivers are blocking streets in major cities including Barcelona and Madrid, in a bid to pressure the government to curb licenses to online ride-hailing apps like Uber. Five dead in crash between minibus and car Five people have died and five more are injured after a crash between a minibus and a car on the A96 between Huntly and Keith, Moray. One of the five people injured is said to have life-threatening injuries. Taxi passenger left unconscious in the street by driver CCTV shows an incident on Fenchurch Place where a man is pulled from a taxi by the driver. He hit his head as he was dragged by his feet from the vehicle and was left injured in the middle of the road. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Star File: Jodie Foster Born and raised in Los Angeles, Jodie Foster started working as a model and actress from the tender age of just three years old. Taxi driver removes burning road block with bare hands A taxi driver removes a burning road block with his bare hands on Wednesday evening in Derry, the burning object was placed in an attempt to stop traffic. 405mph Air Taxi Launched This flying taxi is able to fly at 405mph. The $3.5m VY has a tilt-wing, fly-by-wire design 3 times faster than traditional helicopters. Saudi women get to work - and drive Restrictions on the kind of work women can do in Saudi Arabia are being eased. Women are only allowed to drive as of this month. And already some want to become taxi drivers. The pace of change has suddenly accelerated. Uber won the right to keep operating in London Uber was ruled unfit to run a taxi service last September. The company has won a battle in London as a British court granted the company a 15-month licence to operate. Court: Uber allowed to remain in London, for now A London court has ruled that reforms made by Uber are enough to keep its operating license in that city, but it will be reviewed again in 15 months. Taxi plows into Moscow crowd A taxi drove into a crowd of people near Moscow's Red Square on Saturday, injuring eight people including Mexicans in the city for the soccer World Cup. Uber jumps into Europe's crowded bike-sharing market Uber, the ride-hailing company which has been banned from many European cities, is about to launch its JUMP electric bicycle sharing service in Germany as it diversifies and seeks to build bridges with local authorities. Van driver rams police Land Rover to escape officers A van driver rammed a police Land Rover, causing more than GBP17,000 of damage, to escape from officers who suspected the man behind the wheel was driving while disqualified. Uber's taxi aircraft unveiled Uber has unveiled its prototypes for their UberAir SkyPorts project, and they also revealed its latest flying car design. The famous musician who drives a taxi This Washington taxi driver has a big secret - he is a huge musical star and he still composes in the back of his car. Celebrity Lifestyle Tips: Smartphones Are Life Almost all of your socialising online and in person wouldn't be possible if you're missing one thing: your smartphone. London mayor launches new electric car charging ports around the city Sadiq Khan has launched 51 new rapid charging points in London, which he hopes will help encourage people to get electric vehicles. They can charge vehicles like the new electric taxi up to full in just thirty minutes. First female minibus driver in Cairo Om Abdullah started driving to earn money after her husband died. Nissan trials driverless taxi service Nissan has begun trials of a driverless taxi service called Easy Ride. 

It is envisioned as a mobility service for anyone who wants to travel freely to their destination in a robo-vehicle. CES 2018: Volocopter flying taxi could cut congestion in major cities The Volocopter flying taxi, which could become a new mode of transport for major cities, is on show at CES technology show 2018. The firm behind it hopes it will help cut congestion. Cigarettes or scratchcard? Transgender taxi driver scoops GBP4m lottery win A transgender taxi driver is planning her dream wedding after scooping GBP4m on a scratchcard.
Melissa Ede, 57, became a millionaire days after her partner asked her to marry her with a Christmas proposal.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.