Correspondent The scene of the horror accident in which 12 people were killed.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A total of 26 people were killed in a horror crash on the N1 north, outside Modimolle, Limpopo. Watch.WATCH Twelve people, including three children, were killed when a taxi overturned on the N1 highway near Touwsriver in the Hex River Valley on Saturday, said Western Cape Traffic Chief Kenny Africa. "Early this morning, shortly after 03:00, a driver of a taxi lost control of the taxi and the vehicle overturned," Africa said in a statement. "In this crash 12 people lost their lives: six male occupants, three female occupants, two boys and one girl died in this gruesome taxi crash just outside Touws River.” Ten others were injured. The vehicle was travelling towards Cape Town at the time of the crash. The ANC said it was shocked and appalled by the latest road
fatalities in the Western Cape and would earnestly like to appeal to all road
users to respect and follow the rules of the road. In a statement, Western Cape ANC provincial secretary Faiez
Jacobs also appealed to road users to be more vigilant, tolerant and polite to
one another. Jacobs was referring to this latest incident. "This is a most appalling start to the festive season
and we are saddened by these road deaths. We would like to appeal to all
road users to prioritise their own safety as well as that of others,"
Jacobs said in a Festive Season message. Jacobs also appealed to road authorities to show zero tolerance
to those who were deliberately violating road rules. "We cannot have
mayhem ruling on our roads." Wishing Western Cape residents and visitors to the province well over the Festive Season, Jacobs also urged them to be careful, safe,
responsible and filled with reconciliation. He also expressed appreciation and
thanks to those emergency services workers who would be on duty over this
period.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.