Correspondent (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South
African gold is being looted on an "industrial scale", with research
estimating that the country loses about $1bn (around R14.4bn) through illegal gold mining every
year, the Sunday Times reported. According to the report, much of
this looting occurred during the height of state capture, between 2012 and
2016, and it has been linked to the alleged decimation of the South African
Revenue Services' (SARS) capacity to investigate the illicit economy. According to the paper, research
by the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organised Crime (GI) shows large
anomalies in gold trade data. In one case, Dubai bought 34 tons
of gold from South Africa from 2012-2016, but this is not reflected in South
Africa’s trading accounts. In another case studied by the
GI, eSwatini (Swaziland) reportedly sold 2.1 tons of South African-mined gold
to India between 2011 and 2016. Rising
commodity prices eSwatini reportedly earned $40m (around R577m) from
the sales, while South Africa was paid only $91 445 (around R1.3m) for the gold sold to it. This
illicit trade is reportedly being driven by rising commodity prices, the
limited resources of the South African Diamond and Precious Metals Regulator,
and the closure of the SARS illicit economy investigative unit, according to
the Sunday Times. Former SARS commissioner Tom
Moyane reportedly closed that unit, but SARS has announced that it would be
reinstated. More research by GI and Columbia
University reportedly shows how organised crime rings conduct mining operations
on an "industrial scale". "Armies"
of illegal miners and international networks of buyers are reportedly being
used to smuggle South African gold through places like eSwatini and Mozambique,
to jewellery manufacturing hubs in Dubai, Mumbai and Karachi. The modus operandi is reportedly
to melt the illegally-mined gold down with legitimate gold at refineries run by
criminal syndicates, and then smuggle it out of the country via second-hand
gold and scrap-metal dealers. R7-billion
trade According to Mining Review, South Africa's illegal mining
trade is estimated to be worth R7bn a year, reportedly citing PwC South Africa's
Mine Report 2017. The reasons behind this are thought to be gold's high value,
the ease of finding willing buyers and the high number of abandoned gold mines. In 2015, the South African Human
Rights Commission (SAHRC) estimated that there were 30 000 illegal miners in
South Africa. The
Minerals Council of South Africa says illegal mining and organised crime are
intertwined, with illegal mining being led by international criminal
syndicates. This often leads to losses not only in revenue and taxes for South
Africa, but also losses in employment opportunities, capital expenditure,
exports and foreign exchange earnings.  South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Singing and dancing as Cyril Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa has been elected as South Africa's new president and celebrations followed the announcement in the South African Parliament. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. New heritage centre at !Khwa Ttu reclaims the San's voice On the West Coast in South Africa, !Khwa Ttu launched their new San Heritage Centre that lets these indigenous people tell their own story. Africa's first "ATM pharmacy" Africa's first "ATM pharmacy" has just opened, north of South Africa's main city, Johannesburg. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Chicago ex-cop guilty of murdering black teenager A white former police officer was found guilty of murder for firing the 16 shots that killed 17-year-old Laquan McDonald in Chicago in 2014. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. When your day in Sabi starts with a leopard kill inside the camp... Staff in Idube Game Reserve who spend their entire time in the bush could not believe this early-morning kill which took place right on the lawn of the lodge. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. South African regulators ban colonisation spoof ad A satirical television ad depicting the journey of an African man as he colonises Europe has been banned in South Africa. Regulators said that colonialism is an issue "not open for humorous exploitation". #South African, #colonisation #Chicken Lic... Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. Westgold Resources to buy gold projects from Doray 24 Dec 2018 - Westgold Resources (ASX:WGX) has signed a binding term sheet with Doray Minerals to buy its Andy Well and Gnaweeda Gold Projects. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. Cimic group notches up another contract win 18 Sep 2018 - Cimic Group (ASX:CIM) has notched up another contract win with its companies Pacific Partnerships and CPB Contractors to deliver a Corrections and Treatment Facility in New Zealand. Ethiopia accepts UN peace deal with Eritrea In what is Africa's longest war, Ethiopia is now seeking peace with Eritrea after PM Abiy Ahmed extended an olive branch to the neighbouring country. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Dancing and smiling, Britain's May seeks to bolster ties in Africa visit British Prime Minister Theresa May is in South Africa as part of a three-country tour to Africa to strengthen trade relations ahead of Brexit. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. BHP boosts Australia nickel mining amid EV boom Global miner BHP is ploughing more investment into nickel mine development and exploration in Western Australia, seeking to secure its own supply of a key material in batteries needed to meet booming demand for electric cars. Ed Giles reports South African musician performs during brain surgery A musician from South Africa played the guitar during brain surgery. Known as an awake craniotomy, the surgery is common practice to avoid affecting vital brain functions such as movement, vision and speech.
#SouthAfrica #BrainSurgery #AwakeCranio... Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.