Tshidi Madia Jacob Khawe. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories News24 has learnt that Emfuleni Executive Mayor Jacob Khawe has officially resigned. Khawe, the Gauteng ANC's provincial sercretary, has been at loggerheads with the embattled ANC Sedibeng regional executive committee (REC), which has been demanding that he step down. A source close to the matter, who requested to remain anonymous, said the formalities of the resignation had been completed. Last week, he told News24 "there will be no Christmas where Jacob Khawe is the mayor of Emfuleni". He said he would resign before December 16. READ: Emfuleni mayor confirms resignation is imminent Khawe insisted he needed to lead the finalisation of outstanding reports before leaving office. "The financial recovery plan by Treasury is not ready; the signing off of Section 56 employees is not ready; both of those are done by national and provincial governments. The Hawks have not given me feedback. Instead [they] have given me questions," Khawe previously said. This is a developing story. More to follow.   Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. WATCH: Democratic Alliance councillor Brett Herron resigns DA City of Cape Town MMC for Transport and Housing Brett Herron has resigned with immediate effect. Herron said that the DA is ignoring its manifesto to provide affordable housing and integration. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.