Ntwaagae Seleka Sibusiso Emmanuel Tshabalala. (Amanda Khoza, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A murder-accused Ennerdale father, who claims that he shot his son accidentally when he was startled by a knock on his car window, has asked for time to negotiate a plea deal with the State. Sibusiso Emmanuel Tshabalala shot and killed his son Luyanda at Fred Norman Secondary School on June 5. He claimed that he fell asleep in his car while waiting for his son and that he mistook the child for a hijacker. READ: Ennerdale father, who 'accidentally' shot son dead, released on warning In the Lenasia Magistrate's Court on Tuesday morning, Tshabalala's lawyer Chewe Machaka told the court that the defence wished to make representations to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DDP) about entering into a plea bargain with the State. Magistrate Maggie van der Merwe told Machaka that she understood that the matter couldn't be taken further. "The representations, even if they came from your side, you want a positive outcome," she said. She told a visibly shaken Tshabalala she wished the case could have been finalised and that she was disappointed that the matter had to be postponed again. READ MORE: Case of father who 'accidentally' shot son dead to go to the High Court "I was hoping the matter would be concluded today. I wanted to give you and your family closure on this matter. Unfortunately, it can't be finalised today. I am disappointed. Your lawyer has submitted a letter to the DPP, and they have replied that they would meet him. "If the parties can't meet on the matter, there is nothing I can do. I have been asked to postpone the matter to the beginning of February. I have confirmation from your lawyer that the date will be the one where we will finalise the matter," said van der Merwe. The case was postponed to February 12, 2019. Lone figure Tshabalala sat alone outside the courtroom before his name was called. He glued his eyes to the newspaper he was reading before he entered and sat in the dock. He later stood up, with his back facing the cameras in the courtroom.  WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: 'My brother Naka rugby-tackled all four robbers out of the house' - Tinus Drotské Former Springbok Naka Drotské's brother Tinus relives the events leading up to his brother being shot. WATCH. #OurLostChildren: Remembering baby Zahnia - caught in gang crossfire Cindy Woodward will never hear her firstborn call her mommy. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". VIDEO FROM THE SCENE: Three men injured in apparent hostage drama at Randfontein church A man was shot and two others were injured while trying to escape an alleged hostage situation at a church in Randfontein, Johannesburg. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.