Tammy Petersen The drugs seized from the suspect. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A major drug haul worth R700 000 was made on a street corner in Benoni on Saturday where a man was found with a variety of drugs, the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Police Department has confirmed. Acting on a tip, the suspected drug peddler was arrested on the corner of Rothsay Street and Bedford Avenue, spokesperson Wilfred Kgasago said in a statement. "Different types of narcotics valued at R700 000 were seized. The suspect was found in possession of 53 mandrax tablets, 1.07kg of crystal methamphetamine, 0.20g of khat and ecstasy." R4 300 in cash was also confiscated, suspected to be proceeds from his "illicit dealings". The 33-year-old man was detained at the Benoni police station on charges of possession and dealing in drugs and is expected in the Benoni Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. '41 ziplock bags of crystal meth' In a separate incident, information provided by Actonville locals resulted in the arrest of a couple found in possession of drugs worth R17 500. "The location provided was raided and a man and woman found in possession of crystal methamphetamine and khat were arrested," Kgasago said. "On searching the house on Pillay Street, the metro police uncovered 41 ziplock bags of crystal meth and 26 ziplock bags of khat." The duo – a foreign national and a local woman aged 32 and 30 respectively - were detained at Actonville police station on charges of possession and dealing in drugs. They are expected in the Benoni Magistrate's Court on Tuesday.  Coca Cola Amatil to sell SPC 30 Nov 2018 - Coca Cola Amatil (ASX:CCL) has decided to sell its SPC fruit and tomato business in Shepparton in Victoria. Tear gas and arrests as Paris hit by new yellow vest protests Police fired tear gas and arrested hundreds of people in Paris as the French capital went on lockdown for the latest yellow vest protests against President Emmanuel Macron. #Yellowvest #Paris #Protests WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Polar bear takes centre place in Piccadilly Circus protest Greenpeace staged a protest calling on Coca-Cola to reduce their plastic footprint. To do so, they brought an animatronic bear on an ice float full of empty Coca Cola bottles to Piccadilly Circus. Police find on-the-run paedophile hiding behind false wall A paedophile on the run from police for five years was finally arrested after he was found hiding behind a false wall.

Brian Ward, 62, had evaded authorities since 2013 after he fled a trial for indecently assaulting a young girl. Arrests made as shop is looted in Paris protests Violent clashes continued on the Place de la Republique in Paris, where protesters tried to loot a sports shop and police made several arrests. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? Trump: Opioid crisis 'a national emergency' The president vows to tackle an epidemic of opioid painkiller addiction sweeping the US. Costa Rica seizes two tons of cocaine at sea Law enforcement officials in Costa Rica have made one of the biggest drug confiscations at sea, recovering around 2,000 packets of cocaine. "Yellow vests": Arrests, water cannons on the Champs-Elysees Police arrest "yellow vest" protesters and use tear gas and water cannons to disperse the crowd on the Champs-Elysees. Indonesia frees Bali Nine drug smuggler Lawrence from prison The first member of the "Bali Nine" heroin-trafficking gang is released from prison after serving 13 years in Indonesia for carrying 2.6 kilograms (5.7 pounds) of heroin strapped to her body as she tried to fly out of the international airport on ... WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. Bodycam video of police clashing with protesters in Paris Paris police said 133 people have been injured and 412 have been arrested as protesters trashed the streets of the capital during France's worst urban riot in years.

Police body camera footage highlighted the violence of the anti-government prote... Suspect in Strasbourg attack killed in gun battle with police -officials The suspected gunman, who killed three people at a Christmas market in Strasbourg on Tuesday, has been killed, two police sources said on Thursday. Chris Dignam has more. The drug addict who became a judge A pioneering court in Buffalo, New York, is trying to keep drug addicts alive. It's presided by a judge who knows well the perils of abuse. William and Kate visit homelessness charity in London The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have visited the Passage in Victoria where they heard from frontline workers about some of the challenges of homelessness including drug addiction and mental health issues.

William and Kate then took part in some... Coke, PepsiCo, Nestle top makers of plastic waste Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Nestle topped Greenpeace's list of the world's top producers of plastic waste. Philippines 'Mega Rehab' Centre Life inside the Philippines' giant facility for thousands of drug addicts Nestle and Starbucks wrap up $7.15 bln licensing deal Starbucks and Nestle have wrapped up a $7.15 billion deal for the Swiss company to market the U.S. coffee maker’s packaged coffees and teas around the world. Thuy Ong reports Timothee Chalamet hopes Beautiful Boy gives insight to dangers of drug addiction Timothee Chalamet has said he hopes his new film gives his young fan base some insight into the perils of drug addiction.

The Oscar nominee, 22, plays a teenager addicted to crystal meth in Beautiful Boy, based on the memoirs of Nic Sheff and his... Mexico's army busts drug lab near the U.S.-Mexican border Just steps from the U.S. Mexican border, the Mexican army shut down an outdoor lab that was producing crystal meth. Coffee Coffee contains caffeine, the most widely consumed drug in the world. How much caffeine and sugar is in your energy drink? A look at how much caffeine and sugar is in your energy drink as it is announced that children in England are to be banned from buying the products under Government plans. Colombia's battle with cocaine traffickers Colombia's anti-narcotics police are fighting a war on cocaine trafficking - which is being fuelled by demand in Europe and the US. Pina-coke-lada! Madrid police discover 67kg of cocaine in pineapple Police uncovered some 67kg (147lbs) of cocaine hidden in hollowed-out pineapples at a Madrid market. Up to a kilo (2.2lbs) of cocaine was packed into individual cylinders, coated in wax and encased in the pineapples, reportedly in Costa Rica, befo... 1.6 tonnes of cocaine seized from boat Two men have appeared in court after 1.6 tonnes of cocaine was seized from a boat in the English Channel. Life in an open-air heroin camp A stretch of rail track in Philadelphia has become a refuge for addicts, but the city is about to descend. Pineapple cocaine ring Police in Portugal and Spain have seized cocaine hidden inside pineapples. Colombia seizes largest stash of cocaine ever Colombian police discovered 12 tonnes of cocaine, close to the routes used to smuggle cocaine to the US. Italian police seize around 270kg of heroin Italian police have uncovered 270kg of heroin which is their biggest haul in at least 20 years. They discovered the drugs after spotting suspicious containers in Genoa before tracking it to a destination in the Netherlands. Are You a Cocaine Tourist? Travel to Colombia with World Nomads’ Stephanie Hunt as she learns about one of the country’s most notorious exports, cocaine, and the mass damage it’s caused to Colombian society. Coca-Cola makes $5.1bln bet on coffee Coca-Cola is buying Britain's Costa, the world's second largest coffee chain, for just over $5bln. Drinks Find out if bottled water is really any better than tap water. Do soft drinks contain cancer causing ingredients? Are tea and coffee messing with our sleep? Dark web drug dealers choose to ban fentanyl Drug dealers on the dark web have started to ban the synthetic opioid fentanyl because it is too dangerous to trade, the National Crime Agency says. #Darkweb #drugs #opioid #fentanyl #fatalities Dave Franco wasn't 'fun to be around' while playing heroin addict Dave Franco's wife Alison Brie told him he "wasn't fun to be around" when he starved himself to play a heroin addict in his new movie, '6 Balloons'. Coca-Cola agrees to buy Whitbread's Costa Coffee for $5.1 billion Coca-Cola agrees to buy Costa Coffee from Whitbread for $5.1 billion including debt. Opium addict at nine years old Young children are becoming dependent on the drug, as the amount produced in Afghanistan hits a new high. The HIV prevention drug dividing opinion Prep is a drug which can stop people getting HIV but not everyone wants to take it. 'Major incident' in town near Skripal poisoning A man and woman are in critical condition and are being tested for exposure to an unknown substance just miles from the British town where former Russian spy Sergei Skripal was poisoned in March. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. Spiritual first responders tackle MA drug crisis A group of pastors has teamed up with officers and drug counselors in New Bedford, Massachusetts to offer face-to-face interventions and comfort to homeless people struggling with opioid addiction. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Malaysia makes record crystal meth bust Malaysia has made its largest-ever seizure of crystel methamphetamine, finding nearly 1.2 tonnes of the drug disguised as tea. Police arrest 14 suspects and seize class A drugs during dawn raids This morning, police officers conducted dawn raids across London. The operation was intelligence-led and saw police smashing doors down. 14 suspects were arrested and class A drugs, including crack cocaine and heroine, were seized by the police.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.