Ntwaagae Seleka A woman who was convicted of child neglect in connection with the death of her son, Daniel, has changed lawyers, leading to the postponement of her bail application in the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. On Thursday, Maryke Cloete* was convicted on two counts of child neglect, while her former boyfriend Timothy Naidoo* was found guilty of abusing and killing the three-year-old boy in 2016. Judge Collin Matshitse revoked Cloete's bail after she was convicted. Her new lawyer, Ruaan Hollamby, asked for the matter to be postponed to allow him time to take instructions from his client. The matter will resume next year on January 3. Arriving in the courtroom from the holding cells on Friday morning, Cloete burst into tears and cried uncontrollably. Her family rushed to her side to console her. READ: Man found guilty of murdering Baby Daniel, mother guilty of child neglect She told her mother that she hadn't slept well on her first night in jail. Her mother promised to provide her daughter with the best legal team. #BabyDaniel the convicted mother cried hysterically in court when she saw her parents. The woman's mother and legal team consoled her. Her mother was overheard telling her convicted daughter that she will provide her with the best legal team (@ntwaagae)  #BabyDaniel the bail application has been postponed to January 3 2019. The mother remains in custody. She will spend Christmas in jail (@ntwaagae)  #BabyDaniel lawyer representing mother asks for a postponement of the formal bail application to next year. The court adjourns for few minutes to clarify some matters (@ntwaagae) Conviction The testimony by medical experts, revealed the extent of the torture and the resulting injuries, which included a broken elbow, broken femur, injured ribs and a second degree burns to 60% of his body. Naidoo, who wasn't the child's biological father, said Daniel had fallen into a bath of hot water and, although he had seemed fine afterwards, he had been found dead the next day. A forensic pathologist testified that the child's injuries had been inflicted while he was still alive. Daniel was never taken to hospital for the burn injuries, but prior to this he had been to hospital several times. READ: State calls for conviction in Baby Daniel trial as judge questions mother's fitness Matshitse rejected Naidoo's version that Baby Daniel had accidentally fallen into the bath filled with hot water and hit his head against the tub. "The evidence before the court points that the child was abused throughout his lifetime. The child was previously and consistently abused. The mother turned a blind eye to the abuse. Being afraid of Naidoo, she became silent and her silence led to the death of the child," the judge said. * Not their real names   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.