Correspondent President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the keynote address at the national Day of Reconciliation celebration at the Walter Sisulu University Stadium in Mthatha, Eastern Cape.WATCH South Africans must take
ownership of the state and make it work for their benefit, President Cyril
Ramaphosa said on Sunday while speaking at Reconciliation Day celebrations in
Mthatha, Eastern Cape. "This is a new era, it
is no longer the era of state capture – it is an era of the people capturing
the state…and making the state work better for them," said Ramaphosa, addressing
the crowd gathered at the Walter Sisulu University Stadium. "You must capture the
state and make sure that it works for you," he declared. During his address,
Ramaphosa also weighed in on land reform, saying that it would ensure
reconciliation. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. "Land reform…is key to
furthering reconciliation in our country and is central to eliminating
inequality in our country. "Far from being a
measure that will fuel tensions or set race relations back…accelerated land
reform has the potential to improve the goodwill between the people of our
country." 'There is sufficient land' On the flip side, cautioned
Ramaphosa, "failure to resolve the land issue in a just and equitable
manner will threaten the stability of our democratic nation." "There is sufficient
land in South Africa for all of us so that we can work the land." He said that by ending an
era of arrogance, entitlement and privilege, "I am sure we can foster
reconciliation". Ramaphosa also commented on
the "few" South Africans who wanted to take the country backwards by
insulting different groups and showing bias using "vile names" and
making racist comments. "We must be a nation
of people who respect one another…who see beauty in one another...because we
are all beautiful," he declared. Yet, he added a caveat
later, saying that reconciliation was certainly not "just hugging each
other and telling each other that we love each other" – instead it needed
to be defined by concrete changes such as reducing poverty and inequality and
providing jobs. "The progress must be
real," he declared. SA drifting apart - DA Meanwhile, other
politicians also weighed in with comments on Reconciliation Day. DA leader Mmusi Maimane
queried whether South Africans were drifting further apart rather than coming
together. "We must ask ourselves
today: How quickly are we reconciling as a nation, and are we even still moving
in the right direction? Because at times it feels like we are drifting further
apart from each other," Maimane said in a speech prepared for delivery at
a Reconciliation Day event held in Eldorado Park in Johannesburg. He said while laws were
about to fight structural racism – South Africans now needed to deal with their
attitudes to each other. "We must find better
ways of listening to and hearing each other." The EFF released a
statement on Reconciliation Day in which it focused on land. "It is only following
the successful motion of the EFF in Parliament, that the true response to the
battle of the Blood River has been finally constituted," the party said in
a statement. "Race relations
between black and white people can only be sustainable once the land question
has been resolved."     S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa steals show at summit: 'We need leadership, not leaders' South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. 'Rainbow nation' is still a dream in South Africa With few prospects for the future, the freedom Nelson Mandela fought for has little to offer young people. Today's South Africa has many troubles, including a high proportion of people without jobs. EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels for summit EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels to review relations and discuss ways of intensifying and broadening their cooperation, at the 7th summit between the two sides, which takes place 100 years after Nelson Mandela's birth. The summit will... Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. WATCH: Report shows over six million SA children live below the poverty line Over six million children in South Africa still live below the food poverty line, according to the Child Gauge 2018 report released on Tuesday. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Singing and dancing as Cyril Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa has been elected as South Africa's new president and celebrations followed the announcement in the South African Parliament. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 4 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 3 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". WATCH: Andile Mngxitama provides 'context' to "kill white people" statement Black First Land First (BLF) held a press conference on Tuesday to address concerns raised over a statement made by party leader, Andile Mngxitama. WATCH. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Black Friday chaos captured on camera in South Africa Shoppers in Potchefstroom sprint into Game as the store opens at midnight as Black Friday chaos hits South Africa. Some bargain hunters chose the risky route of climbing over trollies. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. French President meets South African President at G20 summit French President Emannuel Macron meets South African President Cyril Ramaphosa during G20 summit in Buenos Aires. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. Kyle Abbott excited to make SA return at Durban Heat Former Proteas bowler Kyle Abbott says he is excited to be back playing cricket in South Africa for the Durban Heat in the Mzansi Super League. CSA CEO on SABC's readiness to broadcast MSL Cricket South Africa CEO Thabang Moroe is eager to see how the national broadcaster, the SABC, will provide their coverage of the inaugural Mzansi Super League. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... German minister suggests voluntary colonialism for Africa The African Union has rejected a proposal by a German minister suggesting foreign powers acquire land in Africa to stop migration. #voluntary #colonialism #Africa WATCH: White people failed the TRC by not attending - Peter Storey Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... Was Mandela a hero or a 'sell-out'? The BBC asked young South Africans for their views on anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.