Tammy Petersen (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Cape Town teacher who was struck from the roll of educators after inappropriate sexual behaviour towards a pupil has been dismissed following his suspicious return to the classroom. Arnold Robertson returned to teaching at a primary school in Bonteheuwel where he allegedly applied, using a professions council certificate issued 11 years ago. The Western Cape Education Department confirmed the appointment was under investigation. Until Monday, he was a teacher at Central Park Primary. Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond confirmed to News24 that Robertson's appointment had been retracted. The department's circuit manager handed him the required paperwork on Monday and saw him leave, she said. Robertson, a former teacher at Stratford Primary in Eerste River, was sanctioned for misconduct in 2011. 'Smaaked' a student He was first accused of inappropriate sexual behaviour in 2009, according to a report in the Weekend Argus three years ago. According to the publication, reports compiled after hearings stated that he had told a female pupil he "smaaks" – or likes – her and that he became aroused when she was around him. In front of her friends in the classroom, he also allegedly said he wanted to have sex with her. The report stated that he also suggested to his pupils that they watch pornography with their dads and speak about it, which he supposedly defended as sex education. Then school principal Valarie Coetzee reportedly confronted Robertson who admitted to having sexual feelings towards the girl, it emerged during the hearings. Coetzee ostensibly felt obliged to report it because similar allegations have been levelled against him in the past. 'Rehabilitation period' Hammond confirmed to News24 that Robertson received a final written warning and two months' suspension without pay seven years ago. The matter was referred to the SA Council of Educators which, after a disciplinary hearing, struck him from the roll. The WCED terminated his services in terms of the Employment of Educators Act and he was deemed to have resigned, Hammond said. Robertson took the matter on review to the Western Cape High Court. "The judgment given was for SACE to register him on a three-month provisional registration and that he was supposed to provide proof of attendance of rehabilitation before any extension is given," said SACE spokesperson Themba Ndhlovu. He could not immediately confirm if this documentation had been made available. "The SACE views the matter very seriously [as well as] the allegations that he submitted a SACE registration certificate for employment." Processes in place Hammond said the WCED had processes in place when appointing new permanent staff. The vetting of new employees at a departmental level was done through external service providers. Teachers are also required to produce a SACE certificate. News24 visited the school on Monday to obtain comment from Robertson. He was ostensibly at the school but unavailable at the time. Requests for comment from him, the school and its governing body were referred to the provincial education department. Arizona teachers go on strike Arizona is the latest state where teachers are walking off the job to demand better pay and more school funding. US schools walk out over gun violence Students were demanding gun legislation that promotes school safety, 19 years since the Columbine massacre. NDP MPs react to sexual misconduct claim against Christine Moore After New Democrat Christine Moore's suspension following a sexual misconduct claim, fellow NDP MPs say no party is immune from the issue. An Afghanistan war veteran says Moore engaged in inappropriate sexual behaviour. Dresden teacher wary of far-right AfD online platform A Dresden teacher recalls what life was like under communism. That's why the far-right AfD party's new online platform reminds her of the days when students could denounce teachers. Kavanaugh denies accusation as Ford describes alleged assault in emotional hearing Brett Kavanaugh denied allegations that he sexually assaulted Christine Blasey Ford and angrily told Congress that Democrats were engaged in "a calculated and orchestrated political hit".
In her own testimony, Ms Ford described the alleged assault. Harvey Weinstein 'to be charged' at New York precinct Harvey Weinstein arrives at a police precinct in New York amid reports he is to be charged by authorities. It's alleged Weinstein sexually assaulted numerous women with accusations ranging from inappropriate comments to alleged rape. Weinstein pleads not guilty to new charges Movie mogul Harvey Weinstein faced new sexual assault charges on Monday in New York, the third criminal sex assault case brought against him. Drake sues woman over pregnancy and rape claims Drake has reportedly filed a lawsuit against a woman named Layla Lace who claimed that he got her pregnant before accusing him of rape after they allegedly had consensual sex after one of his concerts in Manchester last year. Mother of two gets a 'designer vagina' A stunning mum who compared having her vagina tightened to improve her sex life, with "looking after her face," even agreed to having the intimate procedure filmed. At least two dead in school bus highway collision At least two people are dead and 43 others injured after a school bus collides with a dumptruck on a highway. Zoe Kravitz felt 'like a freak' at school Zoe Kravitz "felt like a freak" at school because of the colour of her skin, as she went to a private school with predominantly white students. Kelly Clarkson's active sex life Kelly Clarkson and her husband Brandon Blackstock enjoy a varied and spontaneous sex life. Celebrations after India's gay sex ruling One man says "I'm finally glad I can say I'm not a criminal in this country anymore". Trump slams Kavanaugh's second accuser President Donald Trump on Tuesday accused Democrats of running a 'con game' in order to derail his Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, and cast doubt on the credibility of the second woman to accuse Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct. Azealia Banks claims she was drugged and raped Azealia Banks has told fans she had been sexually assaulted in an emotional Instagram post that has since been deleted. Movie Report: Red Sparrow In the mystery thriller 'Red Sparrow', we follow Jennifer Lawrence as a Russian ballerina who gets recruited into 'Sparrow School'. This isn't your typical 'nose in the books' education though. Instead, the girls learn to use their bodies as weapons. Love Island's Dani Dyer and Jack Fincham to wed in 2019? 'Love Island' winners Dani Dyer and Jack Fincham are planning to get married next year - and won't have sex until then. Rita Ora's 'non-existent' sex life 'Let You Love Me' hitmaker Rita Ora has admitted she is too busy for romance, and described he sex life as "non-existent". Taylor Swift makes 'generous' donation to sexual assault survivors' charity Taylor Swift is continuing to show her support to anti-sexual assault organisations following her groping trial victory and has made a very generous donation to the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network. Georgian-era 'sex manual' to go under the hammer An auction house is selling an 18th century "sex manual" - which advises men to improve their performance by eating sparrows, parsnips and young pigeons. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." Alec Baldwin teaches 'Trump School' Comedian Alec Baldwin headlined a state Democratic party banquet teaching school lessons about Donald Trump. Ed Sheeran slams music funding cuts Ed Sheeran has slammed cuts to music education and revealed he was "benefited hugely" from the music education provided at his state school. 3-D printed gun maker Cody Wilson resigns The founder of 3-D printed guns, Cody Wilson, is now back in the United States, but has resigned after being charged with sexual assault for having sex with an underage girl. Colette Luke has more. Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. Silicon Valley - Can Games Create an Education Fit for the Future? Imagine a school where playing video games is encouraged during classes and may even replace exams. A new educational programme uses SimCity to test children on vital problem-solving skills. Cardi B's pregnancy stops her getting intimate Cardi B has candidly told her social media followers she is dying to have sex with her husband Offest, but her burgeoning baby bump is getting in the way. French teachers protest against Macron reform plan Nearly one in two high school teachers, and one in four primary school teachers, go on strike against President Macron's plans to reform France's education sector and cut jobs - the first time all teaching unions have agreed to strike together sin... School teacher launches appeal for surrogate after bowel cancer A primary school teacher whose womb was shrivelled by radiation, has taken the unusual step of launching an online appeal for a surrogate - after treatment for bowel cancer at 29 left her unable to carry a baby. B-wom tells us why an app can be a girl's best friend B-wom is a Barcelona-based digital coach for women's well-being. The app offers personalized guidance on intimate female health issues -- such as how to perform pelvic floor exercises to improve your sex life or for pregnancy aftercare. We chat to... Is this the most patriotic Canadian? High school teacher Dave Suchanek is so patriotic about Canada, he's created an alter ego: Flagman. South Korea - the price of success South Korea's education system is notorious for the pressure it places on school students. Often they have little time for hobbies or friends. One start-up wants to make learning more fun. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Online learning at your own pace in Brazil In Brazil, schooling is compulsory for children between the ages of 7 and 14, but there is little state monitoring. Meet the teacher who wears school uniform Alex Maina Kariuki is a school principal with a difference. He insists on wearing the same school uniform as his students. Harvey Weinstein pleads not guilty to rape and sex charges Harvey Weinstein has pleaded not guilty to rape and criminal sexual act charges at a court hearing in New York. Rose McGowan details Harvey Weinstein assault allegations in new book Rose McGowan has published details of her sexual harassment claims against Harvey Weinstein in her new memoir 'Brave', claiming he pinned her down on the edge of a jacuzzi and performed oral sex on her, whilst pleasuring himself. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Harvey Weinstein in handcuffs after being charged with rape Harvey Weinstein has been charged with rape following an investigation by police in New York. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  