Mxolisi Mngadi Police search and rescue vehicle. (File, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The search for drowning victims at KwaZulu-Natal beaches resumed on Friday morning, provincial police said. A search for a 13-year-old boy who drowned at a beach on KwaZulu-Natal's south coast on Thursday has resumed, police confirmed. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane told News24 that police officers from the Port Shepstone search and rescue unit, with the assistance of the police airwing, had started looking for the boy at Mfazazane Beach in Shark Bay. "Beach patrols and an aerial search were unsuccessful yesterday (Thursday). The boy is still missing, and our search and rescue teams are still looking for him," he said. Meanwhile, the Empangeni search and rescue unit has also resumed a search for a 15-year-old boy and three others who were swept away by a rip current at St Lucia Beach, on the north coast of KwaZulu-Natal, around 15:00 on Wednesday. The incident was only reported to the search and rescue unit on Thursday, according to police. The Port Shepstone search and rescue unit also recovered the body of a 25-year-old man who drowned at an unprotected beach in Umthwalume, on the KwaZulu-Natal south coast, on Thursday.  Search teams with cadaver dogs seek fire victims As the search for human remains continues in the burned town of Paradise, fire officials in Northern California say some remains of the missing may never be found. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Policeman being attacked by bull! Bull attacking police officer. BJP's search for new alliances Are Relief package for farmers on its way as BJP searches for new alliances? Thai rescuers continue cave search The Thai Navy is still searching for 12 boys and their football coach, missing since 23 June. Northern California fire is state's deadliest ever The Northern California wildfire has  killed at least 42 people, making it the deadliest in state history. French police hunting Strasbourg attacker kill man in shootout A suspect has been killed in a Strasbourg shootout with French police searching for the alleged gunman who killed three people near a Christmas market on Tuesday.

The shooting occurred in the Neudorf neighbourhood, where police conducted a search... WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. Athens church blast injures two A homemade explosive device went off this morning at the church of St. Dionysus in central Athens injuring its caretaker and a police officer. Two injured in blast outside Athens church A homemade explosive device went off this morning at the church of St. Dionysus in central Athens injuring its caretaker and a police officer. Police in Texas save boy who jumps from burning building Body camera video shows the moment Texas police officers save a boy who jumps from the second-storey window of a burning building. SA women create beautiful handbags from Toyota car seats and waste material Toyota has found a way to reduce its monthly landfill waste by donating all its waste seat cover material to Esikhumulweni Cooperative Limited to be transformed into all kinds of wearable accessories. Path Of The Gods One of the most beautiful hikes in the world. The Ride East Coast Setting out on their Jet Skis, the boys rode 3,000 kilometres from Sydney to Cairns. Huge waves, blistering heat, sharks, box jellyfish, and crocodiles all stood between them and the finish line. So what drove them to do it? Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. Syrian state media's coverage of protests in France and Syria The Syrian state media have been covering police brutality against the Yellow Vest protesters in France. Here's how the same media outlets covered protests in Syria in 2011.
#France #YellowVests #Syria Aircraft crash-lands metres from popular Welsh beach A small plane has crash-landed just metres from the shore at a popular Welsh beach. Sandboarding on a 'singing' sand dune The Travel Show's Mike Corey visits the Altyn-Emel National Park in Kazakhstan. Energy weighs on week: Aus shares close flat on Friday 26 Oct 2018 - Weekly Market Wrap. ASX breaks five-day red run. AMP (ASX:AMP) hit new low, but was upgraded. Over week Energy fell most, Industrials fell least. Beach Energy (ASX:BPT) forms new JV in WA. ResMed (ASX:RMD) revenue rises 12%. IOOF Hol... WATCH: Free State police department confirms sleeping traffic cop is 'on medication' The Free State Department of Police, Roads and Transport has responded to a viral video of a traffic officer apparently caught sleeping on the job. Police dog's new snow boots take some getting used to Jary the police dog learns to walk in his new snow boots at Rapid City Police Department in South Dakota WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: 'There's no outbreak of salmonella in KZN' – health department tries to quell fears There have been a number of laboratory-confirmed cases of salmonella in Durban but there is no "outbreak" of infections in the province, KwaZulu-Natal health authorities said on Monday. Guatemala calls off volcano searches for now Guatemala suspends the search for survivors from deadly eruptions of the Fuego volcano  due to dangerous conditions for rescue workers. Officials admitted that the volcano alert went out late, and departments are now squabbling over who is to blame. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Lions suspected in drowning of 400 buffaloes in Botswana More than 400 buffaloes believed to have been chased by lions drown in a river in northern Botswana. The mass drowning occurred on Tuesday night in Chobe River on the border with Namibia. Buffalo river drownings are not uncommon in the region, but... WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. WATCH: 'Do not fight me, I'm doing my job'- traffic officer keeps his cool with motorist A traffic officer has been applauded for keeping calm during an altercation with a motorist in Vryheid, north of KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province. Giant pipes wash up on beaches Plastic segments up to hundreds of metres long beach on the Norfolk coast. After Ganpati Visarjan, Shahid & Amit turn beach clean-up warriors A day after Ganpati Visarjan festivities, Bollywood and television celebrities like Shahid Kapoor, Amit Sadh, Niharica Raizada, Ritwik Sahore took to the Mumbai beaches for a clean-up drive. On the last day of Ganpati festivities, thousands of ido... A Holidaymaker's Guide to South Africa's Wild Coast The weather's always good on the Wild Coast, and there's so much to explore - all the better when you're on foot! Search crews think they found crashed Lion Air jet Divers have recovered possessions from passengers on the Indonesian Lion Air flight that crashed on Monday, but authorities say its is almost certain that none of the 189 people on board survived. Thai cave boys: Seventeen days in darkness How an audacious search and rescue mission saved 12 Thai boys and their football coach. Several people killed as new US bridge collapses and crushes vehicles A new pedestrian bridge collapsed on to a road at a Miami area college, crushing at least five vehicles under massive slabs and killing several people, authorities said. At least 15 people killed in boat accidents in Indonesia Two boat accidents have killed more than a dozen people in Indonesia as millions travel home to celebrate the Eid holiday. Paradise lost: What's left of a California town The town of Paradise in northern California used to be home to nearly 30 thousand people. Photographer Terray Sylvester explains what's left of it a week into the state's deadliest and most destructive blaze in history. Passenger plane crashes into the sea near Indonesia's capital Jakarta A passenger jet with 189 people on board has crashed into the sea just minutes after taking off from Indonesia's capital, Jakarta.

Indonesia's disaster agency posted photos online of a crushed smartphone, books, bags and parts of the Lion Air jet... 'Hero' ex-police dog Finn makes a splash Life's a beach for retired police dog Finn who nearly died after he was stabbed in the line of duty. Sylt - What to do in winter Sylt has more than 40 kilometers of sandy beaches and all sorts of ways to explore them: riding, jogging, surfing, just walking or taking a guided nature tour. You'll never be bored on Sylt. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. How rhino orphans get back into the wild at Hluhluwe-Imfolozi in South Africa What was once used as a temporary holding for rhinos being relocated at Hluhluwe-Imfolozi Park in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, has now become a centre for rhino orphans who have lost their mothers predominantly to poaching. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. Police claim clerical sex abuse testimony in Loughlinisland document seizure Confidential testimony from alleged sex abuse victims of a notorious priest are among sensitive files seized by detectives investigating two film makers. Trevor Birney and Barry McCaffrey were arrested earlier this year over the alleged theft of a... WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. Search for 'Disappeared' teenager Columba McVeigh 'one of most challenging' A dig for the remains of a teenager murdered by the IRA is proving one of the most challenging undertaken by experts searching for the 'Disappeared' victims of the Troubles, a senior investigator has said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.