Chante Schatz WATCH: Langa residents loot abandoned truck after being hijacked in Pinelands Residents in Langa took advantage of a hijacked truck in Cape Town on Wednesday after stealing goods from the abandoned vehicle. Langa residents loot an abandoned truck after being hijacked in Pinelands. (Screenshot) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Residents in Langa took advantage of a hijacked truck in Cape Town on Wednesday by looting goods from the abandoned vehicle. A video has surfaced on social media showing scores of people jumping in and out of the truck with various goods in hand. According to police, the truck was hijacked by three men at a grocery store in Pinelands on Wednesday afternoon and was later found in Langa. "All contents were looted. No injuries were reported during this incident and no arrests have been made so far," said police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana. Pinelands police are investigating the incident.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Police use stun grenades to disperse picketing MyCiti protesters Police have fired stun grenades at MyCiti bus drivers on strike in the Cape Town CBD. WATCH: 'That children are being trained to do this is horrible' - Spur handbag theft victim A family of would-be-robbers seemingly worked together to steal an unsuspecting woman's handbag from a restaurant on the weekend. WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". SATIRE: "This wonderful person called Hlaudi" | Hlaudi Motsoeneng rap remix "I want to applaud people who recognise this wonderful person called Hlaudi. Because when I came here there was no SABC" - Hlaudi Motsoeneng, 2016 WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. WATCH: Aerial view of Secunda taxi strike Scores of taxi drivers in Secunda, Mpumalanga caused a traffic jam on roads moving in and out of the city centre. WATCH: A News24 2018 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' All I Want For Christmas Is You News24 thought it apt that some of South Africa's politicians bring you a little festive cheer. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.