Kim Harrisberg 'Cheated out of thousands by traffickers' Abu Sayyed says he will never try to go abroad again after being conned by people smugglers. Modern technology is useful in combating human trafficking. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It
was a simple idea, involving only her personal cellphone and the local radio
station. But it was an idea that would save 70 Ugandan women from the hands of traffickers
in the few short months that the idea was launched. Up to 50 calls a day Hellen
Lunkuse, the founder of the Rape
Hurts
organisation – an NGO that fights for the rights of abused and trafficked women
in Eastern Uganda – wanted to focus on intervention of trafficking rather than
just rehabilitation of victims. She went to her local radio station, Busoga
Radio, and read out her personal cellphone number and the number of one of her
colleagues. She encouraged women to call them – women who had been offered jobs
elsewhere and needed advice on whether the things they had been promised were
legitimate. “We can
receive up to 50 calls a day. We have saved 70 women from trafficking in the
past six months,” says Lunkuse in London at the Trust Conference – an annual
conference run by the Thomson Reuters Foundation that brings together
activists, innovators, journalists and researchers fighting trafficking. “We
give the women alternative ideas on income creation. We show them photos and
videos of women we have saved from trafficking so they understand the risks
involved.” Lunkuse has had 400 students roll through her vocational training
school. One of these is Millie Racquel, who was rescued from trafficking and
taught sewing skills. She is now a successful fashion designer in Uganda.
Financial independence, says Lunkuse, means Ugandan women do not need a man to
speak on their behalf. They become less susceptible to the promises of
traffickers because they have options. The
Trust conference bought together hundreds of innovators like Lunkuse. One of
them included Andrew Zolli, the VP of Global Impact Initiatives, Planet – a
geospatial imagining organization using the world’s largest constellation of
Earth-observing satellites in history. These satellite images are being used to
better understand myriad human rights and environmental issues, including anti-trafficking
interventions. Zolli
brought up a satellite image of legal and illegal gold mining in Peru on the
screen projected to the audience. A comparison over time shows the sliver of
brown sand in the illegal mine image becoming wider, spreading like a thick
river between the green trees. “The Peruvian government were able to use the
contrast of these images to dismantle the illegal mine,” says Zolli. “We are
essentially using space to help life on earth.” Revealing larger trafficking
networks Planet
works closely with the Rights Lab Slavery Observatory – a geospatial slavery
observatory. Dr Doreen Boyd – a Professor and reader in Earth Observation at
Nottingham University – believes that “one third of slavery is detectable from
space.” These images can also detect flood-risk areas, crop changes, brick kiln
labour, cotton harvesting season, types of machinery, and even buses bringing
in slave workers. These are all puzzle pieces in revealing larger trafficking
networks. But
as Zolli and Boyd reflected: “These pixels are useless unless we collaborate
together.” Collaboration
was also the impetus behind the interactive
map that
was envisaged at the anti-trafficking workshop run by Thomson Reuters
Foundation and the Global
Leadership Academy
in Nairobi in June and again in London in November. This “living map” is
essentially an open portal for trafficking testimonies, resources and data
linked to trafficking across the globe. In partnership with Health-e News and
Code for Africa, participants of the lab began to send in data from their
countries, in an attempt to humanise the numbers, and to paint a real picture
of what trafficking looks like around the world. It is an invitation to the
world to help populate the map, through this
simple online form. This
intention is that activists, researchers and journalists working in trafficking
can use this data to better understand the intricacies of trafficking in their
countries, and that potential victims can empower themselves through this
information too. Other
examples of simple yet impactful means of innovating include the work of
photojournalist Jekaterina Saveljeva in the creation of femLENS – a free documentary photography
workshop run for marginalized women across the world so that they can change
the portrayal of their own stories using cameras/mobile phones. femLENS trains
the women and then assists in exhibitions of their work.  Recently Halima al-Haj, a Syrian refugee, won $5000 in
a photography competition after attending a femLENS workshop. Saveljeva has
recently run a workshop with women at risk of trafficking in Ukraine. Fight against slavery continues The
conference did not shy away from the horrors of trafficking realities either,
careful to tell a truthful story of what these innovations are up against. As
mentioned by Luis C deBaca – the former US ambassador-at-large to Monitor &
Combat Trafficking – “technology is not a synonym for innovation”. Tools, both
complex and simple, can be used in myriad ways fuelled by the agenda of whoever
is steering the ship. deBaca
pointed out that the simple invention of the printing press meant Uncle Tom’s
cabin could be printed in 1852, an anti-slavery novel that would fuel the
abolitionist fire and “lay the groundwork for the civil war” in the United
States. It is
harrowing to know that 166 years later, the fight against slavery continues.
Only now traffickers have changed their tools, as should we. Kim Harrisberg
was in London for the Unveil the Hidden Presence Lab run by Thomson Reuters and GIZ. This
lab brought journalists, activists and policy planners together to tackle human
trafficking issues worldwide. Image credit: iStock 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  