Riaan Grobler WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. Julius Malema (File, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories EFF leader Julius Malema is set to appear in the North Gauteng High Court on Wednesday on charges relating to violating the Riotous Assemblies Act. Malema faces two charges for the contravention of section 18 (2) (b) of the Riotous Assemblies Act. The summons alleges that on December 16, 2014, during the party’s elective conference, Malema incited party members to commit a crime, by occupying any vacant land they came across. A second summons indicated that he has been charged a second time for a similar transgression, for making the same call in Newcastle on June 26, 2016. It was widely reported in 2014 that AfriForum had laid charges against Malema for the land invasion speech at UFS. Read: 'Bring it on, papa, we are not scared of these boers' - Malema on AfriForum In reacting to the summons, EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu called the move an "apartheid-era tactic". "The state takes the act of charging him for a political speech, exactly what the apartheid murderous regime used to do," said Shivambu.  He said the government was using a 1956 law to go after Malema. "We have degenerated back to what the apartheid regime used to do. The ANC is behaving exactly the same way as the apartheid regime used to do. They absolved themselves from killing workers in Marikana, now its employing racist apartheid-era tactics." In September, a procedural mishap, involving a notice the EFF filed at the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, led to a delay in the party's challenge to the constitutionality of the Riotous Assemblies Act. Read more: EFF notice debacle delays court challenge to Riotous Assemblies Act The EFF has a poor track record in court cases brought against it by AfriForum, having lost five cases since March 17. Court proceedings are expected to commence at 09:30.     WATCH: Malema lays charges against Pravin Gordhan EFF leader Julius Malema opened a case of money laundering and corruption against Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. WATCH: Andile Mngxitama provides 'context' to "kill white people" statement Black First Land First (BLF) held a press conference on Tuesday to address concerns raised over a statement made by party leader, Andile Mngxitama. WATCH. WATCH: High Court instructs government to draft a plan for District 6 restitutions Since the Restitution of Land Rights Act 22 of 1994 came into effect our government has failed to provide adequate restitution to the people of District Six - as well as having violated their constitutional  rights. WATCH: Rural community wins right to reject mining on their land The Pretoria High Court has ruled that the minister of mineral resources will have to get consent from the Xolobeni community prior to granting mining rights on their land. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. The court dismissed the case before we even got here - Zwelihle protesters A charge of crimen injuria was withdrawn against Hermanus land activist Gcobani Ndzongana on Friday, but he will have to remain in custody for his trial in another matter. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. 10 Things You Didn't Know About Antarctica We know so little about Antarctica. Did you know it is the largest desert in the world? Or that 99% of it is covered in ice? Learn more facts about this strange land. We would like to win that land in Stellenbosch because it belongs to us - 'Azania' residents Application for an eviction order by the owner of a plot of private land that people are building shacks on in Stellenbosch was postponed to the 29th of August today   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.