Jenna Etheridge The EFF says it will take further action against private security company Professional Protective Alternatives (PPA), in the interests of those who were removed from Clifton Fourth Beach, and not because it is being opportunistic. "We will be dealing with them. The PPA must come out and give an apology to the people," Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) provincial secretary Banzi Dambuza said on Monday. "We will lay charges against them and will go as far as marching against them [at their offices] if they do not apologise." The party says it is also investigating a series of threats made against its officials and supporters before a march took place over the weekend. WATCH: Protesters reclaim Clifton beach Lobby group Black People's National Crisis Committee arranged a protest at Clifton Fourth Beach on Friday evening following reports that private security company ecurity company PPA Security allegedly closed down the beach at sunset last Sunday. READ: City of CT to act against security company, #ReclaimClifton protesters The EFF marched through Camps Bay to Clifton on Sunday to hold a "picnic against racism". Dambuza claimed he had received eight calls from largely private numbers on Sunday, in which unknown individuals swore, used the k-word and the term "baboons" to describe the EFF, and personally threatened to kill him. "Initially they said we must not even go to Clifton yesterday. Instead of stopping us, it actually became a motivation. We went to Clifton, knowing there were threats. We would like to find out who they are. When that happens, we will deal with that and lay charges." City denies it has contract with security company People reacted with outrage following reports that the security company had illegally removed people from the beach on December 23. Western Cape ANC secretary Faiez Jacobs claimed he was asked to leave around sunset by guards clearing the beach. The PPA said it had nothing to do with denying beachgoers night access to 4th Beach. PPA CEO Alwyn Landman told News24 at the time that his guards were brought in to assist the City of Cape Town's Law Enforcement officers after two teenagers were allegedly raped. Western Cape police initially said they had no record of the rapes being reported. It emerged that the incidents had happened the previous day. Advocate Bruce Hendricks, speaking on behalf of the security company, said it was contracted by residents in the area to provide private security and would still patrol for its clients, which included restaurants in nearby Camps Bay. The City's executive director for safety and security, Richard Bosman, said last week that the City has no contract with the PPA and that the company was not operating on its instructions. He said the City's beaches were open to all members of the public. 'Opportunistic political organisations' Cape Town Mayor Dan Plato said security officials had asked people of all races to leave, and did not single out any race groups. "It has also become clear that opportunistic political organisations have ignored this fact to drive a highly divisive and politicised racial agenda." Protesters descended on the beach on Friday, slaughtering a sheep, in what they called a "cleansing ceremony" to rid the beach of racism. Responding to Plato, Dambuza said they were not opportunistic, and represented the people of Cape Town. "We have been there in front of Dan Plato representing the workers of MyCiti. Where there is something here in Cape Town, the EFF will be here in front of his face." The City meanwhile on Sunday said it will lay a formal complaint against PPA with the Private Security Industry Regulatory Body (Psira). It would also lay a complaint against people involved in the slaughter of the sheep for animal cruelty, and against senior police officers who allegedly prevented City law enforcement officials from preventing it.  WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: CCTV footage shows kidnapping of Hannah Cornelius and friend A clip, captured by Battery Centre's security cameras, shows a group of men approaching Hannah Cornelius' car, which was parked behind a white bakkie, before driving off. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: Teen can't talk, but his singing brings joy at a Spar every day Brett Nash is no stranger to breaking out in song at his local Spar. The non-verbal teen recently went viral after his mother posted a clip on Facebook, singing the national anthem and vernacular songs with staff. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. Samara prepares to host England and Sweden's World Cup quarter-final Blocked streets, security guards and police checkpoints scattered the Samara city centre on Saturday morning, ahead of the Sweden-England World Cup quarter-final match there. WATCH: Father of boxing champion killed in heated argument in Gauteng A video which has been circulating on social media shows a 61-year-old man and a security guard in a heated altercation, WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. 'Let all land belong to the state' The radical EFF opposition party has called for expropriation of land without compensation to redress the imbalance in land distribution in South Africa. Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: New footage has emerged following clash by 2 rival church groups in Joburg New video footage has emerged of the widely reported clash outside the International Pentecost Holiness Church in Zuurbekom, west of Johannesburg last Thursday. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.