Jean le Roux Gift Rantsane, the PE student behind the fake job scam site. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A network of Facebook groups impersonating South African celebrities has been used by a scammer to dupe its 575 000 members into visiting his websites. News24 can reveal that Kutlono Gift Rantsane, 25, a student from Port Elizabeth, is the creator of at least 16 websites and four Facebook groups impersonating local celebrities such as Bonang Matheba, Minnie Dlamini-Jones and Kiernan Jarryd Forbes, also known as AKA. Rantsane uses these "celebrity" pages to post old and expired job adverts in order to lure hopeful jobseekers to his websites. Once there, the prospective jobseekers are duped into clicking on adverts disguised as application forms, scoring the website owner a quick buck while the jobseeker wastes their time and data. Rantsane's websites exploit South Africa's raging unemployment crisis by promising employment opportunities. In the second quarter of this year, unemployment rates in South Africa soared to 27.2% of the working population. About 6.1 million people are unemployed, with about 2.9 million discouraged jobseekers not even trying to find work anymore. These millions of jobseekers are Rantsane's target market, but instead of posting fabricated news articles, Rantsane publishes old or expired job listings in order to attract visitors to his websites. The investigation into Rantsane was prompted by several Facebook posts about matric-related work that began trending on Facebook in late November. Dubious job adverts These posts advertised work for matriculants that required no experience and no formal education. The job postings were posted on several Facebook pages that impersonated local celebrities, apparently with the aim of gaining credibility. Each post contained a link to one of Rantsane's websites, along with a claim that application forms and details to apply can be found on the site. Users are also encouraged to share the post and comment with their phone numbers, another way of tricking Facebook's algorithms into ranking posts higher on other users' news feeds. Upon closer inspection, many of these job postings appeared dubious. For example, one post claimed retailer Pick n Pay was looking to employ more than 500 workers at one go. Another claimed the Department of Transport was looking for young people to be trained as traffic officers for up to R28 000 per month, with only Grade 10 required. Once on the site, the user is met with intrusive adverts, some even disguised as "apply now" or "submit CV" buttons. Between the adverts, the details of the job itself can be found, minus one small detail: the closing date of the application. This is because the job listings posted by Rantsane's websites are expired, some even as far back as 2014.   Several examples of old or expired job adverts could be found on the site:  Hopeful jobseekers visiting the site have no hope of getting any position they apply for on the site.  The investigation Rantsane was identified after he was traced through several social media accounts, website registration records, company returns and credit traces. Because his modus operandi is similar to that of "traditional" fake news websites, the same principles used to identify those behind fake news websites could also be applied to investigate his identity even though instead of fake news, Rantsane serves fake or expired job opportunities. The investigation kicked off on a page impersonating local rapper and songwriter AKA. This page itself contained little clues as to who is behind it – it has no administrator listed, and contains no contact details or names in its "about" section.   The adverts directed users to a website, www.jobwinners.co.za. This site is littered with Google Ads, some of which resemble "apply now" or "submit CV" buttons in the hopes a user might click on them. The adverts also provided us with the owner's Google AdSense ID. An AdSense ID is a unique fingerprint attached to an advert displayed on a website. The ID allowed News24 to identify other websites using the same AdSense ID to make money from its traffic. The website also provided another clue – the right sidebar contained a reference to another Facebook group, Mzansijobs, which also shared several links to other websites with a similar design. These websites, in turn, used different Google AdSense IDs which could again be used to identify more websites. By iterating this process, a total of 22 websites using seven Google AdSense IDs were discovered.   Using website registration records, we could identify nine of these websites had been registered by an individual with the name "Gift KG Mokwena" or an individual using the email address giftrantsane@gmail.com . Using an app called Crowdtangle, News24 traced the originating links to several of Rantsane's websites that are still active. This allowed News24 to identify the social media posts that contain a link to that specific web page, and allowed us to identify several groups used by Rantsane to distribute the links to his websites.   The combined membership of these three pages is 575 000 people. These groups themselves provided additional clues. The information tab on the "Minenhle Minnie Dlamini" (Dlamini-Jones) page contained a link to the Facebook profile of "Gift Rantsane". Dlamini-Jones' manager, Maphe Dlamini, said his client had no involvement with the page. "This scam has been going on for years and affected many innocent people and celebrities alike. We have tried our best to communicate over the years [with people] not to believe these scammers, we even went as far as deactivating Mrs Jones' FB pages for a few years. Similarly, the Puma Kimi2 page also contained a link, and short bio, for a Gift Rantsane.   It also displayed the same email address used to register several of these websites. The pages claiming to be those of Mzansijobs, Matheba page and Dlamini-Jones also showed they were administered by a person called Muhlle Mncube. Mncube shared a friendship with both Rantsane and his cousin, whose account Rantsane later confirmed he used to make some of the posts. Gift KG Mokoena's Facebook page identified him as Gift Rantsane, and also revealed he was the administrator of at least two pages that frequently posted fake job adverts linking to his websites. A credit trace and company deeds records confirmed that Rantsane was located in Port Elizabeth, which corroborates the information contained in website registry records and on the Puma Kimi2 Facebook page.  Questions sent to Rantsane via WhatsApp were responded to earlier on Tuesday. Rantsane confirmed that he was the owner of these websites, but denied being the owner of the Facebook groups. According to Rantsane, he "borrowed" the pages from others. He also denied purposefully posting expired job adverts. "I wasn't aware if they're that old but I always try to copy at least fresh post." Rantsane's claims that he was unaware do not explain how he managed to include a post from as far back as 2014 as a new listing. He also seems to have missed several posts made on both the Facebook pages and in the comments of individual posts, labelling his job adverts as fake.   Rantsane told News24 that he supports his family and pays his school fees with the money he makes from the adverts on the page. "I'm doing google AdSense as you have stated on one of your articles on News24. I do this AdSense as a source of income so I can be able to go to school and support my family. I wasn't aware this is wrong otherwise I'm willing to walk away from it, but the problem is I won't be able to support myself and my family. Even now I was working so I can have cash for varsity registration fee for next year as this is the only source of income for me and my family (sic)." Dlamini-Jones urged caution on the part of internet users. "I hope people will be more cautious online and I'm deeply sorry to everyone that has been affected by the scam."      Waste not: South Africa makes world's first human urine brick One day, when nature calls, your urine could be put to better use than to be flushed down the loo. Instead it could be a key ingredient in the construction of a greener office or new home. WATCH: Bonang Matheba's pays the taxman, matter struck off roll The Specialized Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg has on Tuesday, struck off the roll the tax evasion charges against TV personality and Businesswoman Bonang Matheba. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Stina Ehrensvard of Yubico on staying independent Stina Ehrensvard of Yubico on staying independent: If we had been acquired by Google, we wouldn't have been able to do this job. Facebook grounds internet drone project Facebook ends its Aquila project - a plan to design and build a fleet of drones to deliver the internet to remote areas. B is for balloon: Alphabet's Kenya internet deal Alphabet subsidiary Loon announces it will bring its solar-powered internet balloons to Kenya in its first commercial deal in Africa. Israeli restaurant owner in Berlin fights anti-Semitism Yorai Feinberg challenges those who abuse him by posting threats and insults on the internet. But when Feinberg posted hatemail he had received to draw attention to the growing problem of anti-Semitism, Facebook temporarily blocked his account. Elon Musk's flamethrowers bring in $5 million so far Elon Musk's flamethrowers have made $5 million so far, Google invests in Go-Jek and Facebook will start prioritizing local news. All this on Crunch Report. Silicon Valley - Google's Balloons That Could Bring the Internet to All Many parts of the world are without internet coverage. Now search giant Google plans to bring web connections via a fleet of high-flying balloons. Infrastructure and Connectivity: A Regional Perspective with Imad Kreidieh (Ogero Telecom) and Ari K Access to the internet and connectivity is the driving force for the 4th industrial revolution. Join a conversation about how the Telco industry is changing in Lebanon and the region, and what that means for businesses and consumers. Sponsored by ... Facebook sets up "war room" to take down fake news Facebook launched a unit called "war room" to combat disinformation and fake accounts ahead of midterms. Netflix is now worth more than $100 billion Netflix is now worth more than $100 billion, Uber Eats acquires Ando and Rupert Murdoch wants Facebook to pay for the news. All this on Crunch Report. The Future of the Internet Dark web, regulation, privacy what is the future of the internet? Anushkas REACTION on her CRYING MEMES | Sui Dhaga: Made in India Since Anushka- Varuns Sui Dhaga: Made in India trailer was released, Anushkas look from the film became the subject of viral memes online. The internet has been flooded with memes of a crying Anushka. Anushka Sharma and Varun Dhawan also introduce... Seth Rogen taught Tom Cruise about Internet porn Seth Rogen taught Tom Cruise about porn on the Internet, after a meeting in 2006 left the 'Mission: Impossible' star shocked by its existence. Nicole Kidman moved to America after she fell in love Nicole Kidman has shared that she moved to the United States after falling in love with her ex-husband Tom Cruise. This is what the inventor of the web thinks about the internet Silicon Valley technology giants such as Facebook and Google have grown so dominant they may need to be broken up, the inventor of the worldwide web says. #Tim Berners-Lee #Web # Apple # Microsoft #Google #Facebook 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. Russia set to play hardball with big tech firms Tech firms like Google could face big fines in Russia if they don't comply with legislation on data. Julian Satterthwaite reports Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.