Sarah Evans Khoisan Chief SA with the activists outside the Union Buildings. (Leon Sadiki/City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The
Presidency says it is still committed to addressing the concerns of members of
the Khoisan community, currently camped outside the Union Buildings, who have
threatened to "take (their) country back" unless their demands are
met. The group has been camped on the
South Lawns at the Union Buildings since November 30, according to the Citizen. They reportedly want another
audience with President Cyril Ramaphosa, similar to the one they were granted
last year. The group has reportedly raised
concerns about a number of issues, which the Presidency says are
"complex", including land reform and the Khoisan people’s status.
They are refusing to leave the Union Buildings until their demands are met. Last year, Ramaphosa met with a
Khoisan delegation who also camped on the lawns outside the Union Buildings, until
the president agreed to see them. On Christmas Eve, Ramaphosa met with them and
agreed to give their concerns attention. Independence This time, Ramaphosa has not been
able to meet the group, but the Presidency says senior government officials,
including director-general in the presidency, Cassius Lubisi, have done so to
update the Khoisan group on progress made. But the group doesn't appear to be
satisfied with this, and threatened to declare independence on January 1. On Saturday, the Presidency
issued a statement outlining its engagements with the Khoisan delegation,
undertaken by senior officials. Among the issues raised by the
Khoisan is land reform. The group says that the Khoi and San people are the
only ones entitled to the country’s land and wants the land to be returned to
them. They say African black people and white people have no claim to the
country’s land. They say land reform policy which
states that land claims should only be limited to land taken through the 1913
Land Act must be scrapped, and want formal recognition as the "Khoisan
First Nation", the Presidency said. The group also wants Khoisan
languages to be recognised among the country's official languages, and for the
word "coloured" to be removed from all government documentation and
replaced with the word "Khoisan". The Presidency said on Saturday
that the group has been informed of a number of Parliamentary and other
processes under way aimed at addressing some of their concerns, and urged the
group to participate in these. Khoisan classification This includes discussions on the
Traditional and Khoisan Leadership Bill under way in Parliament, as well as
Parliamentary processes on land reform. The Presidency also said that a
number of steps have been taken by the Pan South African Language Board
(PANSALB) to promote and recognise the Khoi and San languages. The Presidency said the group was
told that the word "coloured" could not be removed from government
documentation without a public participation process, and that Cabinet could be
asked to approve such a process. It was proposed that Cabinet
could be asked to consider including the term "Khoisan" as part of
the classification of communities, without removing the term
"coloured". The Presidency also said that the
group was urged to participate in the National Khoi & San Council, which
met in November in Bloemfontein. "This will make it easier
for government to interface with Khoisan leaders through a single, unified and
legitimate structure," Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko said.  WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH - Nene out, Mboweni in: here's everything you need to know President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Tuesday afternoon that former Reserve Bank Governor Tito Mboweni would be the new finance minister. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. Ramaphosa steals show at summit: 'We need leadership, not leaders' South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: 'Edna Molewa's life was one of sacrifice, selflessness and service'  - Cyril Ramaphosa An official funeral service for the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa was held in Pretoria on Saturday.

President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at the Tshwane Events Centre. 'Our people shouldn't have to travel hours to work' - Ramaphosa launches Atlantis economic hub "Our people shouldn't have to travel for hours and hours to work." That was the message from President Cyril Ramaphosa at the launch of the Atlantis Special Economic Zone in Cape Town on Thursday. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH: The mini budget in under 3 minutes Fin24's Moeshfieka Botha gives an overview of what Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said about VAT, spending shortfalls and the economy in his maiden mini budget  speech in Parliament on Wednesday. New heritage centre at !Khwa Ttu reclaims the San's voice On the West Coast in South Africa, !Khwa Ttu launched their new San Heritage Centre that lets these indigenous people tell their own story. Africa's first "ATM pharmacy" Africa's first "ATM pharmacy" has just opened, north of South Africa's main city, Johannesburg. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Singing and dancing as Cyril Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa has been elected as South Africa's new president and celebrations followed the announcement in the South African Parliament. South African musician performs during brain surgery A musician from South Africa played the guitar during brain surgery. Known as an awake craniotomy, the surgery is common practice to avoid affecting vital brain functions such as movement, vision and speech.
#SouthAfrica #BrainSurgery #AwakeCranio... WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. Attack of the small screens: Africa eyes mobile gaming boom The Africa Games Week, in Cape Town, South Africa, looks at promoting the continent's video game industry, by bringing together developers and partners from both Africa and abroad. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. South African regulators ban colonisation spoof ad A satirical television ad depicting the journey of an African man as he colonises Europe has been banned in South Africa. Regulators said that colonialism is an issue "not open for humorous exploitation". #South African, #colonisation #Chicken Lic... Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. VIDEO: Activists march 80kms from Marikana to Union Buildings demanding compensation for widows Two groups marched to the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Wednesday. The groups requested President Cyril Ramaphosa receive their memoranda who failed to appear. WATCH. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. Everything you need to know about Cyril Ramaphosa's #CabinetReshuffle President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced changes to the National Executive at the Union Buildings, Pretoria. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.