Sheldon Morais You may have thought the EFF's spat with Vodacom was over after the two organisations kissed and made up during a meeting on Tuesday but it seems the matter just won't go away. If, for the past five days, you've been under rock (or unable to catch up on the news due to load shedding – thanks Eskom) a number of Vodacom stores were damaged and vandalised, allegedly by EFF members after veteran ANC politician and Corruption Watch chairperson Mavuso Msimang criticised the party during an awards ceremony. Speaking at the Vodacom Journalist of the Year ceremony last week, Msimang - using an image of EFF leaders Julius Malema and Floyd Shivambu to illustrate his point - said the party's behaviour was "nothing if not a blatant abuse of democracy". Fighters don’t be surprised when @Vodacom gathers journalists to strategies on how to deal with EFF. It just means our fight is right where it belongs, in the belly of the beast: #WhiteMonopolyCapitalismWe would not be doing well if they were not all uniting against us #Asijiki pic.twitter.com/VHUgLgGse5 Msimang's speech - which centred on the advances and abuses of democracy in South Africa - made mention of other individuals and organisations, but it's the reference to the EFF which has got critics and supporters of the party talking - and even days later some high-profile leaders and commentators are still working their thumbs on Twitter, tagging, replying and retweeting. On Wednesday, Malema and Mmusi Maimane, the DA's leader, had people grabbing for their popcorn as the two politicians tried to get one up on each other over Vodacom's response to the fracas. Maimane kicked it off by responding to a tweet by former editor Barney Mthombothi, in which the columnist slammed Vodacom for "[r]ewarding thuggery". If democracy means no consequence or accountability, it loses its own meaning. I will not do business with Vodacom. Malema then entered the fray. So why do businesses with us @EFFSouthAfrica? But instead of a juicy twar, the interaction lasted no longer than four tweets. But why do businesses with and can’t do business with those who are doing business with us, remember is not about ideology but doing business.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  