Andile Sithole PHOTO: andile sithole Captain Patrick Ngwane urges parents to look after their children. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories SCHOOL holiday season has started and children are excited about the break. SAPS and local child organisations encouraged parents to teach their children about personal safety these holidays. Tongaat SAPS are concerned about reported cases of missing children. In a recent incident, a 14-year old girl was reported missing at the Tongaat SAPS. The child, from Flamingo Heights, was later found by the police in Verulam. Police spokesperson in Tongaat Captain Patrick Ngwane cautioned parents to look after their children during this busy holiday season, saying: “We urge children too to report to their parents when going out with friends. “As the members of the SAPS, we have to try by all means to avoid wasting police resources. However, we encourage parents to report missing person to the police immediately.” “Since the schools have been closed, parents must ensure that their children are safe,” he said. Social work manager at Tongaat Child and Family Welfare Society Jo Moodley also encouraged parents to look after their children. CHILD SAFETY TIPS > Children must know how to contact their parents, SAPS or another close relative in an emergency. > Children must be taught to refrain from accepting gifts from strangers. > Children must know to always keep all entrances and gates closed and locked, and that nobody is allowed to enter without permission from a parent. > Children must be taught how to activate and deactivate the alarm system and other security devices. > Parents must know the whereabouts of their children at all times. > Listen to your children. Pay attention if they tell you they do not want to be with someone or go somewhere. > Practice basic safety skills with your children. > Do not let children wear clothing or carry items that bear their names in public. To report any crime against children, call the Child line number 08000 55555 or your nearest police station.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.