Canny Maphanga Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu. (Alon Skuy, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A family member of deceased Life Esidimeni patient Joseph Gumede, 60, says she will only be happy once former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu is thrown in jail for her role in the tragedy. "They should have done this a long time ago. "I am not going to be happy until she is thrown in jail, her stepping down from the ANC is none of my business, that is just politics," Ntombi Dladla told News24 on Tuesday upon hearing that Mahlangu was told by the ANC to resign from the party's provincial executive committee (PEC). Mahlangu was thrust into the spotlight in 2017 when 144 mentally ill patients died under her watch as health MEC when her department transferred 1 700 patients to various NGOs after it terminated its contract with Life Esidimeni in a bid to save money. The NGOs did not have valid operating licences. A total of 21 Life Esidimeni patients remain missing following the tragedy. ALSO READ: Ramokgopa appeals for help to find 21 missing Life Esidimeni patients Following months of public pressure and growing calls for her to resign, she stepped down as the MEC in February 2017. Now Mahlangu, along with ANC leader Brian Hlongwa, has been instructed to resign from the PEC following the scandal. March to Luthuli House "We asked them to step aside to self-correct, for personal growth and the protection of the ANC brand," ANC Gauteng secretary Jacob Khawe told News24. While Dladla sees this as a positive move, she is calling for Mahlangu's arrest. "This is about justice for our families who have not yet healed from the tragedy," she told News24. Dladla and her family, along with other relatives of those who died in the Life Esidimeni tragedy, have not yet received compensation for the death of their loved one. On Monday the affected relatives marched to Luthuli House and the office of Gauteng Premier David Makhura seeking answers. ANC head of the Presidency Zizi Kodwa promised family members that he would speak to the premier and that the matter would be finalised by Friday.  WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. Six dead and dozens injured in Italian nightclub stampede - local media A stampede at a nightclub in eastern Italy leaves at least six dead, with dozens more injured. Helen Percival reports Hondurans flee from poverty but find death in migrant caravan Wilfredo Cruz lives in the slum of El Caimito in the port city of San Lorenzo and waits for the body of his son Oscar to be returned after he died at age 17 on his way to Mexico with the "caravan" of migrants seeking the American dream and to esca... Beans Carolyn seeks the answer to an age old question - do beans really cause flatulence? WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. Shooting at Chicago hospital leaves at least 4 dead A gunman at a Chicago hospital killed a police officer and two others before dying in the shooting, which sent doctors and patients streaming out of the facility. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. From near-death to boxing champion At 15 years old Richard Riakporhe was stabbed and nearly died. Now he's a boxing title holder. Child cancer patient meets life-saving donor for the first time Blood cancer charity DKMS organised the meeting of Jack Withers with his stem cell donor, Michael Merten, after a lifesaving operation to cure his illness. Northern California wildfire death toll at 56 At least 56 people are now known dead in the massive Northern California wildfire. Authorities say 130 people are unaccounted for. How Google Glass Could Transform Doctor's Visits Google Glass may be coming to your surgery soon. Could wearable tech help medical professionals give patients more attention and ultimately better medical care? First baby born after womb transplant from dead donor A woman in Brazil has given birth to a baby girl after receiving a womb transplant from a deceased donor, in the first successful case of its kind. #wombtransplant #brazil #transplant WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. Life on the Israel-Gaza border through Instagram's lens Groups of young women who live on opposite sides of the Israel-Gaza border are turning to Instagram, to challenge stereotypes and provide a window into their daily life. Governor General joins Bear Clan Patrol for Winnipeg walk Gov. Gen. Julie Payette took a walk through the cold streets of Winnipeg with the Bear Clan Patrol on Monday night, as the neighbourhood watch group told her about the harsh realities of life in the city's north end. Online campaign for security guard killed by US police officer An online fundraiser has raised over $130,000 for Jemel Roberson, the black security guard who was shot dead by a US police officer. Roberson held down a gunman and waited for police to arrive.

Police shot Roberson upon arrival at the scene. He l... WATCH: Golf ball-sized hail stones turn parts of Gauteng an icy white Severe hailstorms turned parts of Gauteng an icy white on Thursday. How Ebola attacks the body Videographic on the deadly disease Ebola. The death toll from an Ebola outbreak in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo has risen to more than 200. Doctors clash with NRA over gun deaths A war of words between physicians sick of treating gunshot victims and the gun industry lobby has gotten a boost following this week's shooting death of a doctor outside the hospital where she worked. Aid org: 85,000 Yemeni kids may be dead of hunger A leading international aid group said Wednesday that an estimated 85,000 Yemeni children under the age of 5 may have died of hunger and disease since the outbreak of the country's civil war in 2015. Fleur East 'trained' body to cope with meat in jungle Fleur East spent two months reintroducing meat to her diet ahead of her appearance on 'I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!'. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. Debt-ridden handyman jailed for life for murdering pensioner A debt-ridden handyman who bludgeoned an 85-year-old widow to death with a hammer and stole her GBP7,000 diamond ring has been jailed for life. U.S. life expectancy drops again The CDC says U.S. life expectancy declined in 2017 fueled by drug overdoses and suicides. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. 11th child dies in viral outbreak at NJ facility An 11th child has died in less than four weeks at a New Jersey rehabilitation center, one of 34 young patients with compromised immune systems to have been infected by a viral outbreak. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. Frank Field says he will employ "the best legal minds" to dispute Labour membership rules Frank Field has said he will employ "the best legal minds" to dispute Labour rules which say he cannot return to the party after resigning the whip. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. The special needs of people with dementia People with dementia and/or delirium in hospital have higher mortality rate, more falls, and higher complication rates. The family and carers can play a critical role in ensuring that medical staff know if there is a change in the persons normal t... Mask of Deception Are dangerous substances in our food supply and the over consumption of certain food substances killing us? Is our diet one of the main underlying causes of most life threatening and disabling diseases in western society today? The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. Health Secretary mocked by MPs for geography gaffe Health Secretary Matt Hancock mistakes York MP Rachael Maskell for a Scottish MP when answering her question in the Houses of Common. Cystic fibrosis patient's heartfelt awareness raising campaign released after her death A cystic fibrosis patient's heartfelt awareness raising campaign is to be released after she lost her battle to the disease. Fashion designer Kate Spade dies aged 55 Chelsea Clinton has led the tributes to American fashion designer Kate Spade, who has died aged 55. In aging Japan, abandoned burial urns pile up Unclaimed urns containing ashes of the dead are piling up by the thousands across Japan, as a greying population and economic pressures fray family ties. Avicii's family arrive in Oman to repatriate body Following the sudden and tragic passing of Swedish DJ Avicii, his immediate family have traveled to Oman, where the music maker was vacationing when he died. His family have arrived to repatriate his body this week, following two postmortem that h... Mama Julia proves many good tune played on old fiddle even at 117 Julia Flores Colque, known to locals as "Mama Julia", is a tender 117 years of age, making her a "supercentenarian". The 117-year-old lives with her last remaining relatives, her niece and her niece's husband, who look after her in her old age. Th... Police launch murder probe after death at London apartment block Bethany-Maria Beales, 22, died at The Heron apartment building after suffering injuries consistent with a fall from a height on May 26. Police have launched a murder investigation into her death. Old, not ill: scientist opts for Swiss suicide A 104-year-old Australian scientist has ended his own life by assisted suicide in Switzerland. The scientist was not terminally ill, but said he suffered from deteriorating health. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery Kit Harington nearly died as a child Kit Harington was "seconds" away from death when he got into difficulties in a swimming pool when he was just four years old.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.