Correspondent WATCH: South African paramedic dies in helicopter crash in the UAE A South African paramedic is among four people who died when a helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates. South African paramedic Mark Roxburgh and three Emiratis died when their helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates. "South African Consulate in Dubai is currently providing consular assistance to the family of Mr Roxburgh," said the department of international relations and cooperation in a statement on Sunday. The four were on a search and rescue mission on Saturday to airlift an injured man from Jebel Jais - the UAE's highest mountain. READ: Helicopter bursts into flames, killing entire crew near world's longest zip line in UAE However, before reaching the man, the helicopter crashed and burst into flames after it allegedly clipped the world's longest zip line, measuring 2.83 kilometres, according to the Associated Press. Roxburgh's sister, Lindy-Lee Felix, confirmed her brother’s death on her facebook page, describing him as a strong, courageous and selfless man. She wrote: "My heart breaks with the families of the 3 others who lost their lives... I have no words to describe the heartache. We are beyond broken. My dear brother.... You have crossed the ultimate finishing line....and you can now finally be at peace....(sic)" The SA government sent its condolences to Roxburgh's family, as well as the families of the other crew members. Emirati Monthir Al Muzaki on Twitter also sent condolences to the families of the crew, with the Emeratis known as Saqr Saeed Mohamed Abdullah Al Yamahi, Hameed Mohamed Obaid Al Zaabi and Jasim Abdullah Ali Tunaiji. Toroverde Ras Al Khaimah, which operates the zip line, announced on its website that all flights are cancelled until further notice.  UAE breaks Guinness World Record for world's longest zipline The UAE has broken the Guinness World Record for the world's longest zipline, with the Jebel Jais zipline reaching 2.8 kilometres, beating the previous 2.2km world record in Puerto Rico by 600 metres. Commuting by zipline in rural China When residents of Chinese mountain village Lazimi want to head to the market, they clip themselves onto a cable slung across a raging river. UAE releases photos of 'runaway' princess The UAE has released pictures of Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed's daughter. Sheikha Latifa had been allegedly captured at sea after fleeing the country in March 2018. #UAE #Dubai Ruler #Sheikha Latifa Scottish Borders crash: One dead and 23 in hospital One man has died and 23 people have been taken to hospital after a bus overturned in the Scottish Borders. Three British tourists die in Iceland bridge crash - locator map Three British tourists, including a child, have died after the 4x4 they were in crashed off a bridge in Iceland.

The accident happened at around 9.30am on Thursday when the Toyota Land Cruiser carrying seven passengers crashed through a railing o... Police at the scene of deadly helicopter crash in Mexico Police and emergency crews are at the scene of a helicopter crash that killed the governor of the Mexican state of Puebla and her husband, a senator and former governor.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.