Adiel Ismail WATCH: The moment jazz star Musa Manzini plays his guitar during rare awake brain surgery South African jazz musician Musa Manzini plays his guitar during a rare awake surgery to his head to remove a recurring brain tumour. Renowned South African jazz musician Musa Manzini is in high spirits and will be spending Christmas with his loved ones at home after undergoing rare surgery to his head, while he was awake - during which he played his guitar. Speaking to News24 from his hospital bed on Thursday evening, Manzini said he was recovering well following the six-hour operation to remove a recurring tumour from his brain. - Health24: Brain tumours "They put me to sleep and then drilled my skull open" "They put me to sleep and then drilled my skull open. Once my brain was exposed, I woke up and played my guitar," Manzini explained to News24. "Playing music requires concentration so I was just wishing that I wasn't under any anaesthetic." The multi-instrumentalist said that Dr Basil Enicker, who led the operation team, preferred to conduct the rare awake surgery to help doctors monitor his finger movements. "There was a big risk of the left part of my body being paralysed," said Manzini about the operation.  A post shared by Musa Manzini (@musamanzini) on Apr 29, 2017 at 8:13am PDT  Dr Rohen Harrichandparsad, who assisted Enicker, explained that the operation performed on Manzini was a technique used during a surgery for sensitive parts of the brain, The Mercury reported. "The most important thing is ... to appreciate life" Manzini, who spent some time living in Indonesia and now lectures at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said he suddenly felt the left side of his body going numb. "It was like I was going to have a stroke." Doctors performed a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan, which uses strong magnetic fields and radio waves to produce detailed images of the inside of the body. It was then discovered that the tumour, which first presented itself in 2006 and then again in 2008, recurred in May this year. Manzini said his wife was happy that he was alive, adding: "The most important thing is to look forward to life and to appreciate life." He is also eager to continue making music.  Animal Clinic - Part 10 Tony and Liam try to catch a goose in distress, staff struggle with a nervous cat and Gillian is faced with a tough decision. Alberta boy with rare syndrome like ‘every other kid’ at preschool The mother of an Alberta boy who has Beare-Stevenson syndrome – a rare condition that causes the skull to fuse together prematurely – says the four-year-old has made “wonderful friendships” since starting preschool. Heartburn - Expert interview Prof. Marc H. Jansen talks to In Good Shape about the causes and consequences of chronic heartburn, and how to treat it. Matthew Perry spends three months in hospital Matthew Perry has spent 3 months in hospital following extensive surgery to repair a gastrointestinal perforation. Let’s take a look back at what the A list has been up to this week! Matthew Perry has revealed that he just spent 3 months in hospital following extensive surgery to repair a gastrointestinal perforation. Robotic arms carry out pelvic extension surgery Surgeons carry out a pelvic extension surgery using robotic arms at Royal Marsden Hospital. The technology allows surgeons to carry out procedures that would otherwise be impossible, and to speed up recovery time for existing procedures. Inappropriate Use Of Knee Arthroscopy Arthroscopy is a common surgical procedure for knee osteoarthritis but the evidence shows that it's effectiveness in treating knee pain is only as good as 'fake' surgery, and that patients having arthroscopy for osteoarthritis are getting all of t... London fire: Three remain 'critical' The medical director of St Mary's hospital in London, Dr Julian Redhead, says St Mary's and Charing Cross hospitals have rolled out a "major incident" response. Dad with brain tumour records moving message for his daughters When dad-of-two Steve Durrant, 40, was told he had a brain tumour and may only have 10 years to live, he decided to leave a lasting legacy for his young family by documenting his journey through his cancer treatment, via a blog and YouTube videos. Woman undergoes rare double robotic surgery A cancer patient is recovering at home after being operated on in two areas at the same time in a rare procedure using a robot. Surgeons in Australia 3D-print a woman's jaw In an Australian-first reconstruction, a cancer survivor has been fitted with a 3D-printed jaw and teeth after her face was disfigured when doctors removed a cancer growth. Kazia Therapeutics (ASX:KZA) clinical trial update 22 Oct 2018 - Kazia Therapeutics Limited (ASX:KZA) CEO and Executive Director Dr James Garner provides an update on the company's two clinical stage drug development candidates for the treatment of brain and ovarian cancer. After shedding IS, Mosul embraces makeovers For three years, Mosul's women were covered in black from head to toe and its men had to keep their beards long. Salons were shut, and plastic surgery considered a crime. But more than a year after the Islamic State group's ouster, the Iraqi city ... Bella Hadid denies plastic surgery rumors In a recent interview, Bella Hadid shut down the rumors that she may have had plastic surgery. Doctors revise heart attack prevention guidelines Fish oil, vitamin D, new cholesterol guidelines: News from an American Heart Association conference over the weekend reveals a lot about what works and what does not for preventing heart attacks and other problems Tessa Jowell: MPs pay tribute during cancer treatment debate Tessa Jowell has been showered with praise and tributes by MPs as she sat in the House of Commons chamber for a debate on cancer treatment.

The motion tabled by Labour's Sarah Jones (Croydon Central) pays tribute to the work of Baroness Jowell in... A Fascinating Look at 2500 Years of Plastic Surgery When it comes to humankind's quest for surgically enhanced physical improvements, there's a lot more to it than just the odd bit of Nip/Tuck. Leech therapy saves woman's nose after botched surgery After a plastic surgery operation, Shari Manchon decided to take an unusual course of treatment to regain the circulation in her nose: leech therapy. Dad: Ariana visit 'above and beyond' Ariana Grande has surprised injured fans at the Royal Manchester Children's Hospital with a visit. Face to face: The price of perfection Why do so many people choose to go to plastic surgeons? Some go for major facelifts or body reshapes, others for a quick fix with botox. But why not just age naturally? DW's Ben Fajzullin found out more about the business of beauty enhancement. Company Create Lifelike Medical Robot Boy This lifelike medical robot boy breathes, has a pulse and even bleeds. Marine Passions Submerge the senses into worlds beyond imagination in this visual extravaganza. Encounter graceful manta rays, inquisitive turtles, awe inspiring sharks and become one with the underwater world. Paralysed man walks again after pioneering spinal stimulation surgery A young man paralysed from the waist down after a snowmobile accident has made medical history by walking independently following pioneering surgery.

Doctors in the US used an electrode implanted below the injury site to stimulate surviving nerve... Heidi Montag 'died for a minute' Heidi Montag ha recalled she once died "for a minute" after undergoing 10 cosmetic surgery procedures in one day, and was left in "extreme" pain afterwards. Stiff person syndrome causes young mum to have violent spasms Violent tremors engulf a mum's body up to 20 times a day - triggered by anything from noise to stress - before her muscles spasm, then stiffen, holding her in a vice-like grip. Georgie Weatherley, 30, suffers with stiff person syndrome. How Our Brains Can Control Our Emotions The brain's complicated wiring could help dictate whether we feel happy, angry or sad. Could electrical charges be the answer to help treat mental disorders? Simpler Solutions for Unlocking Secrets of Ageing Minds Could tiny organisms help us understand the extraordinary complexity of the human brain, and how to keep our brains healthy as we get older? One person thinks so. This is How Humans are Programmed to Self-Destruct The human brain is an amazing tool, but why is it so lousy at comprehending the seriousness of big picture problems like climate change? Unlocking the Hidden Secrets Inside Our Brains Why the coming years will witness exciting new discoveries about our brains - from creating better tools to probe the mind deeper to creating smart nanobots. Strange Misfirings of the Brain That Cause Orgasms Will you have what they're having? The Brain's Role in Fertility The brain's role in fertility Chinese Farmer builds crab-shaped vehicle, astounding your inner child Chinese farmer and inventor Zhenlin Fu from Heihe City has created a rideable eight-legged robot which, according to him "keeps the body fit and develops the brain". The inventor and two other robot testers showed how bumpy the ride can be. Here's Why Your Brain Tingles From Soft Noises Do you get a weird, tingly sensation when hearing certain noises? Here's why. How Building a Library of Brains Could Save Lives California's Brain Observatory is building a digital archive of human brains it hopes will help doctors cure life-threatening illnesses. Cardi B gushes over daughter Cardi B loves looking into her baby daughter Kulture's eyes because it gives her "strength." The Art of The Human Brain Self Reflected' is being called the most complex and detailed artistic depiction of our brain ever. The artwork was designed so everyone can marvel at the wonder of human consciousness. Here are the results. #awesome "I can hear when someone's lying" Lawyer Pamela Pabst is blind. In the courtroom she's unable to assess photos or other visual evidence. But what she lacks in eyesight, she more than makes up for with her other senses. As a result she's been very successful in her chosen career. Five yoga poses to help you sleep Five yoga poses to do to help you sleep with MotivatePT. These poses can calm the brain, relieve stress and mild depression, reduce backaches and relax the body. Tessa Jowell gives moving speech to House of Lords on being diagnosed with cancer Tessa Jowell gives a moving speech to the House of Lords on being diagnosed with a brain tumour. Exercise helps prevent strokes in women A Harvard university study of 40,000 women aged 45 years and over has shown that moderate exercise can reduce the chance of having a stroke. Interestingly it was moderate exercise levels that showed the greatest benefit. Giggling baby's laugh caused by rare brain tumour Parents who thought their baby - who "giggled" for 17 hours a day - was just happy were shocked to discover he actually had a rare brain tumour, causing laughing seizures. John Newman struggles with anxiety John Newman has revealed he is struggling from anxiety as he is still living with a brain tumour which was discovered in 2016. Theresa May pays tribute to Dame Tessa Jowell Prime Minister Theresa May pays tribute to Dame Tessa Jowell following her death at the weekend from a brain tumour. US Senator John McCain dies at 81 Senator John McCain, a former prisoner of war in Vietnam died on Saturday after battling glioblastoma, an aggressive brain cancer. Here are five things you need to know about his life. What Are The Types Of Dementia? Dementia is a group of diseases, involving loss of memory, cognitive function and behavioural change. The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer's and the second most common is vascular dementia. We investigate how these types are different, bo... High-tech surgical assistance Robots are becoming more and more common in surgical procedures. It's not easy for surgeons to master the various software. Programmers and physicians in Leipzig are developing standardized software solutions to link the devices.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.