Tholakele Mnganga 3 500 children are abandoned in the country every year (PHOTO: Getty/Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Faith-based
organisation Door of Hope has cautioned against the rise of abandoned babies in
Johannesburg over the festive season. In
September 2017, Statistics South Africa released findings that around 3
500 children are abandoned in the country every year. Stats
confirmed by Nadene Grabham, operations director at Door of Hope. “Police
usually bring us children over this period who have been left in empty
buildings in town, where it could be that the parents have gone back home and
for whatever reason they can’t afford to take the baby or child with them so
they leave them in an abandoned building or crèche.” She
adds that around this time poverty may play a big role in why children are
abandoned by their families. “Safe abandonment is as illegal as unsafe
abandonment so maybe mothers are scared they will get arrested if they leave a
baby at a hospital, fire station or police station. So they would leave it at
places like churches and crèches, anonymously.” Grabham
adds that alcohol and drugs also play a part in the abandonment of children,
especially over the New Year period. With Door of Hope based in Berea, Johannesburg
it covers areas such as Hillbrow, Braamfontein and Yeoville, and Grabham says
they’ve seen the effects too much partying has on young children. “What
we’ve seen over the years is people party a little bit too hard and,
unfortunately, the consequence of that is finding abandoned babies in the
streets and dustbins. In cases like that, they are left to die.” For
people who are feeling overwhelmed with parental responsibilities, Grabham
advises they consider adoption rather than abandoning their children. “Instead
of throwing a baby in a dustbin, go to places like Door of Hope or adoption
agencies where you can receive counselling and be involved in choosing parents
for your baby”. For
parents who may want a baby but can’t look after them, she adds foster care
programmes are an option.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.