Jeanette Chabalala WATCH: Father of boxing champion killed in heated argument in Gauteng A video which has been circulating on social media shows a 61-year-old man and a security guard in a heated altercation, A security guard is expected to appear in court on Monday after a 61-year-old man was shot and killed during an altercation, Gauteng police said on Saturday. Daniel Christoffel van Heerden from Meyerton in Gauteng was killed on Thursday just after 13:00, police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said. "He had an argument with a suspect who was arrested and while they were having an argument the suspect fired a shot and Mr van Heerdan died on scene," Dlamini said. In the video which is circulating on social media, Van Heerden and the suspect are seen having a heated argument. WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. Van Heerden is seen taking the keys from the security guard's vehicle. He is heard saying he will call the police. It is unclear at this point, what transpired to lead up to this incident. The suspect is then seen carrying what looks like a fiream. He follows Van Heerden to a vehicle and opens fire. Van Heerden can be heard saying, "Shoot, I’m [going to] knock you out. Shoot my bakkie." The suspect then replies and says: "You hijacked me." Dlamini said the suspect will appear in the Vereeniging Magistrate's Court on Monday. Van Heerden's son, Chris who is the  former International Boxing Organisation World Champion, tweeted that he lost a hero. R.I.P Daddy1957-2018????????The world needs to know what is happening in South Africa The White populations are being murdered 1 by 1 and yesterday my dad was a victim of this!!!I lost my Hero ??Thank you for all the love & support pic.twitter.com/CZ4JZqKM34     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.