Kaveel Singh Tristan-Lee Niemand (19) Photo: Facebook Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Teenager Tristan-Lee Niemand and another six South Africans have been released from prison in China and will be deported to South Africa, the Department of International Relations (Dirco) said on Tuesday. "The South African mission in Shanghai has informed the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu that the seven South African nationals in Jiangsu province have completed their detention period and will be released and deported back to South Africa," department spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya said. The 19-year-old's plight was brought to Dirco's attention when her parents launched a public appeal for her release. Read: SA woman jailed in China for almost a month after going to teach English The school that employed the seven as English teachers has now been tasked with providing them with return tickets for the flight on which they are to be deported. They are expected to return to South Africa before Friday. The teachers' relatives have also been informed of their release. Niemand, who was planning to teach English in the country, was arrested on November 16 for having the incorrect visa to teach English in the city of Nanjing. "The minister has also been informed that another eight South Africans who have been in distress in Zhejiang province will be deported on Sunday and arrangements for their travel will be coordinated as soon as they are released," Mabaya said. Also read: Government 'concerned' as more than 800 South Africans serve time in foreign prisons He said Sisulu appealed to South Africans planning to travel to China and other countries to ensure they have the correct visas and required travel documents. "I am happy that the ordeal is over for the families, again we urge our young people to make sure they have correct documents and to contact the embassies to verify any information they receive from recruitment agencies," Sisulu said. South African diplomats in China will continue to liaise with the schools and local authorities to ensure arrangements for their travel are finalised, Mabaya said. Dirco clarifies why SA journalist was arrested in Tanzania South African journalist Angela Quintal and her Kenyan colleague Muthoki Mumo were arrested in Tanzania because they were working while in the country on tourist visas, Tanzanian authorities have told the SA government. Migrants facing US visa troubles turn to other countries Central American migrants arriving at the US border after a long trip across Mexico begin to consider applying for visas from other countries, ahead of possible rejection from the US. Trained officials key to implementing changed rules for child travellers, says SA tourism minister "This does not mean returning on the first flight home...the traveller will be given adequate opportunity to obtain the documentation without just being shipped out." South Africa's biggest opportunity to grow tourism remains visa reform As the Reserve Bank hikes rates, the rand, while steady, remains hungover from a hellish year of inflation and the aggressive vat increase has yet to take its toll on consumers - yet travel and tourism remains an underutilised opportunity. A Holidaymaker's Guide to South Africa's Wild Coast The weather's always good on the Wild Coast, and there's so much to explore - all the better when you're on foot! Quick Guide to Chile: Visa-free travel for South Africans Chile in South America is a country with various climates, from one of the largest deserts in the world to snow-covered Andes mountains to tropical islands. Quick Guide to Reunion: Visa-free travel for South Africans With 120-days visa free available to Saffas, why not plan your next Afri-Travel escape in Reunion. Here's the key info you need to know about. The world's most powerful passports Some say it's Japan, others say it's the United Arab Emirates. Here are the top passports to have, granting you visa-free travel to so many destinations. Visa card payments failing across Europe Traders complain of issues processing Visa card payments as the company's systems are afflicted by 'intermittent' problems across the UK and Europe.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.