Ntwaagae Seleka Johann Rupert (Barry Lamprecht, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Multi-billionaire and business mogul Johann Rupert has apologised on Twitter, saying he didn't mean to offend anyone. His tweets follow statements he made during an interview on PowerFM on Tuesday night. Rupert was a guest on the Chairman's Conversation, an annual event hosted by the radio station's founder Given Mkhari. He was accused of being arrogant, racist and suffering from cognitive dissonance during the interview, which was also broadcast on eNCA. READ: Johann Rupert branded arrogant, racist: 'I can't be Father Christmas for the whole of South Africa' During the interview Rupert - who is chair of the Swiss-based luxury-goods company Richemont, as well as of South African-based company Remgro - touched on various topics, including corruption, land expropriation, investor confidence, building a sustainable business, and the Afrikaner Broederbond during a two-hour interview. Is that so? What did he do to bring the World Cup and how? Which World Cup? Rugby? Cricket? Soccer? Or all? When? Why? https://t.co/37dN8YTCtf Mkhari asked Rupert whether he thought the fact that his father had grown up during the Great Depression in South Africa had something to do with his drive and ultimate success in business. Rupert answered yes. "That's the reason… In a sense, the Afrikaner was downtrodden. The poor white question… but they were driven. They studied like crazy, they saved like crazy. "They didn't go and buy BMWs and hang around at Taboo or The Sands [upmarket clubs] all the time." He then said the current narrative around former president Nelson Mandela being a sell-out was "totally disrespectful". "I don't see your generation going to jail for decades, no, you'll miss The Sands," he replied. On Wednesday, the business magnate tweeted: "Apology, no insult intended. I merely replied to a question about how my parents generation lived and saved. Millennials GLOBALLY have different life-styles. (And mentioned that Steve Biko, whom I knew, would not have done it.)" #JohannRupert is not our government. We didn't vote him in. He owes black people fokol! ANC adopted capitalism system by default, for him to agree to help is a favor under this system. He was right to say he doesn't have to help, & could be with fam&frnds @Powerfm987 @mabena_bob  Apology, no insult intended. I merely replied to a question about how my parents generation lived and saved. Millennials GLOBALLY have different life-styles. (And mentioned that Steve Biko, whom I knew, would not have done it.) I used to go to Studio 54-couldn't afford JW Blue?? https://t.co/Qe98jac77h He also claimed in a tweet that he was referring to all races when he made those comments. "Taboo and the Sands are two very expensive clubs where copious amounts of expensive French champagne and JW Blue get consumed. Parking lots filled with Bentleys, Lamborghinis etc. pointed out that Given’s age group - of ALL colours - behave differently from a previous generation," he wrote. Taboo and the Sands are two very expensive clubs where copious amounts of expensive French champagne and JW Blue get consumed. Parking lots filled with Bentleys, Lamborghinis etc. pointed out that Given’s age group - of ALL colours - behave differently from a previous generation https://t.co/5VLtRRPRfH Twitter user Babes KaKendrick commented: "Yeah but we are talking about land that should have been given long before this became a national topic (sic), stick to the topic." Rupert replied that the topic has been a national topic from "The Natives Act of 1913". Started Business Partners in 1979 to help Black business people get long term leases in "white" areas - and they have created 700,000 jobs since then. Not new..... https://t.co/682QCEUbOM In many Townships blacks can't even finish the tenders to pave the streets, they buy cars and spend money on booze and women, when #JohannRupert says it he is a racist, we blacks are playing victim unnecessarily here, Rupert was very honest. At one point, as the backlash continued, Rupert tweeted that he felt like Voortrekker leader Piet Retief. Right now I feel like Piet Retief ???? https://t.co/A0U2s7boJG Firstly #JohannRupert didn't say Black people specifically. Maybe we're touched by the whole Taboo & BMW thing because it hit to close to home #RupertonPOWER     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  