Jeanette Chabalala Prophet Shepherd Bushiri (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Prophet Shepherd Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering Church is pushing ahead with its "Crossover Night" New Year's Eve event, despite the stampede that claimed the lives of three women in Pretoria on Friday night. The church said that arrangements for Monday night's event were in the final stages. Police, meanwhile, have been unable to identify the three women who died, and they have appealed for assistance in finding their next of kin. Police spokesperson Captain Augustinah Selepe told News24 on Monday that the attempted identification of the three women had started at 10:00. "Those who were injured were discharged and there are only two people left in hospital," she said. Selepe previously said that the police had only heard about the stampede on Saturday afternoon, and that officers were immediately dispatched to the scene. The church is situated at the Tshwane Events Centre in Pretoria. According to Selepe, the police believe that a thunderstorm prompted members of the congregation to push each other around during the church service, leading to the stampede. READ: 3 dead, 9 injured following stampede at Prophet Bushiri's church in Pretoria The service began around 20:00 on Friday. Meanwhile Bushiri's lawyer, Terrance Baloyi of Baloyi Ntsako Attorneys, earlier told News24 that those who were injured had been transported from hospital and provided with accommodation and catering. "As we speak, those who are remaining are about 10... we gave them accommodation at Pretoria Protea Hotel," he said. Baloyi also told News24 that preparations for the church's New Year's Eve event at the Pretoria showground were in the final stages. "We have added two major halls that we feel will cater for enough people. We have beefed up security – they are known as marshals – and we trained more than 2 000 so far," he said. Baloyi had earlier told News24 that the stampede occurred when people tried to take shelter inside the church during a thunderstorm. He said some people had panicked and he said that three people had been knocked unconscious. "We regret the incident as a church because it happened within our premises," Baloyi said.  Worst christmas eve on wall street S&P 500 enters bear territory. Krieger - Merry Christmas! Is there any way to avoid seasonal spending? Perhaps not. But there's more to Christmas than commerce. Olaf Krieger celebrates his own way. WATCH: Christmas lights raise funds for charity Ken Paley doesn't like being in the spotlight, he prefers to brighten other people's day instead. Watch. Queen departs Sandringham after Christmas Day church service Queen and royal family depart Sandringham Church after Christmas Day service Royals greet Sandringham crowd after service The Royal Family greeted well-wishers after attending the Christmas Day church service at the Queen's estate in Norfolk. A Dutch church is holding a marathon service to block a family's Christmas deportation Worshippers at a church in the Netherlands have been holding round-the-clock prayer services for more than six weeks to prevent an Armenian family from being deported, hoping for a Christmas miracle. The Striezelmarkt in Dresden Conjuring up the perfect Christmas spirit is hard work for those working at Dresden's Striezelmarkt Christmas market. Then there are all the concerns about security. London's New Year's Day Parade Crowds amassed in the centre of London to see dancers, acrobats, cheerleaders and marching bands take part in the annual New Year's Day Parade. Trending: Thandie Newton recognised in Queen's New Year's Honours List, Kanye West blasts Drake for In case you missed it, here's what's trending right now: Thandie Newton to be honoured with OBE in Queen's New Year's Honours List, Kanye West blasts Drake for following wife Kim Kardashian on Instagram, and newlyweds Nick Jonas and Priyanka Chopr... Nile Rodgers set to light up New Year's Eve CHIC featuring Nile Rodgers will perform before the world famous fireworks display on the River Thames in London, produced by BBC Studios. Stocks: not very merry Christmas - unhappy New Year? World stocks were set for their seventh straight day of losses on Monday, as investors nervy about the possibility of a prolonged U.S. government shutdown and a worsening global economy opted for the safety of bonds and gold.  As David Pollard report Barge catches fire after fireworks show goes wrong A barge carrying new year fireworks catches fire at Terrigal beach in Australia. Spectators risk safety in Mexico fireworks display Spectators in a Mexican city risk safety as they run from a model bull shooting fireworks during a traditional display. Tultepec is famous for firework production but has a poor safety record with 40 people dying from firework explosions in 2018. Chinese Catholics conclude historic year with Chirstmas Eve mass Hundreds of Chinese Catholics attend a Christmas Eve mass in Beijing, closing out a year that saw China, which broke off diplomatic ties with the Holy See in 1951, reach an historic deal with the Vatican. Fireworks 'chaos' as barge explodes Thousands of people were evacuated by police after an Australian New Year's celebration went wrong. Mexico:Hundreds bid farewell to governor killed in chopper crash Hundreds of politicians, relatives and supporters bid farewell to the governor of the Mexican state of Puebla and her husband after they were killed in a helicopter crash on Christmas Eve. Mother hails 'amazing' medical teams who saved her baby boy's life The mother of a boy who stopped breathing for five minutes after his birth is glad to have her baby home for his first Christmas. Festive swimmers take to the water for Dublin lifeboats Scores of Christmas Day swimmers braved the cold in Dublin to raise money for local RNLI crews. In Co Dublin, an annual swim to raise funds for the RNLI has been held by Clontarf Yacht and Boat Club for the past 42 years. Jennifer Lawrence keeps Christmas Day tradition alive with Hospital visit Jennifer Lawrence has continued this year with a holiday tradition that she began in 2012, and she returned to Norton Children’s Hospital in her native Louisville Kentucky, on Christmas Day to visit sick patients and spend the morning chatting wit... How to keep your Christmas tree fresh Tips on how to keep your real Christmas tree fresh Christmas tree marks one year since IS defeat in Iraq Christmas tree marks one year since IS defeat in Iraq Queen helps girl hang decoration on Christmas tree The Queen helps eight-year-old Shylah Gordon hang decorations on a Christmas tree at the opening of Coram's new children's centre. 21,500 lights adorn Kensington pub for Christmas The finishing touches are added to the 97 Christmas trees and 21,500 lights that make up the festive display at the Churchill Arms in Kensington, London, ahead of the official switch on. How to dress your Christmas tree A step-by-step guide on how to dress your Christmas tree in style with Ikea. Jason Statham and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley reportedly to wed on New Year's Eve Jason Statham and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley are allegedly all set to get married on New Year's Eve. Venezuelans prepare for 'Old Year' tradition to burn away 2018 Venezuelans prepare to mark New Year's Eve with the "Old Year" Andean tradition, when they will light dolls, cars, and trucks on fire to symbolize burning away the economic and social crises that gripped the country in 2018, including migration, i... Designer Neeta Lulla hosts Christmas party for Manikarnika team To commemorate the beautiful journey with Manikarnika team, ace designer Neeta Lulla threw a special party for the team on the eve of Christmas yesterday. "I will take him down" Nasukawa on Mayweather NY eve fight Japanese kickboxer Tenshin Nasukawa promised to "take down" his opponent, the boxing great Floyd Mayweather. Mayweather is more than double the age of his New Year's eve opponent - they will take part in a 3-round exhibition boxing bout in Saitama... Wreckage recovered following fatal Sydney seaplane crash The wreckage of the seaplane that crashed into a river near Sydney on New Year's Eve killing six has been recovered. The dead included a high-profile businessman and an 11-year-old girl. Sydney seaplane crash: Sharp turn 'inexplicable', operator says A seaplane that crashed near Sydney on New Year's Eve killing five Britons hit an area of water away from the expected and standard flight path, a preliminary report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau has said. Camila Cabello almost kissed Nick Jonas Camila Cabello has confessed she nearly kissed Nick Jonas on New Year's Eve. Mayweather insists bout is 'extremely serious' as he prepares to entertain Floyd Mayweather and Japanese kick boxer Tenshin Nasukawa on Saturday talked about their exhibition bout on New Year's Eve in Japan.  Neither kicking nor official results are part of the Rizin Fighting Federation match, but a knockout is possible,... 'I felt very afraid' Mayweather's opponent Nasukawa talks about exhibition bout Floyd Mayweather and Japanese kick boxer Tenshin Nasukawa on Saturday talked about their exhibition bout on New Year's Eve in Japan.  Neither kicking nor official results are part of the Rizin Fighting Federation match, but a knockout is possible,... Ariana Grande set for New Year's Eve weekend concert Ariana Grande will return to the stage for a special New Year's Eve weekend show in Las Vegas after admitting the idea of touring scares her. How NOT TO celebrate New Year's Eve Man in suit and sunglasses shoots firework out of hand. Sadiq Khan praises the response of Londoners to a tough 2017 The Mayor of London speaks before the New Year's Eve celebrations in the capital praising the response of Londoners to a tough 2017. How to beat the traffic this holiday season The festive season means a lot of things. Mince pies, Christmas trees and, in the UK at least, lots of traffic on the roads. Damascus' Christmas tree brings light after years of conflict Christmas decorations light up the Syrian capital Damascus, as the city marks its first holiday season since regime forces ousted rebels and jihadists from its doorstep earlier this year. Wall Street set to drop after record Dow rally U.S. stock futures pointed toward a drop at the start of trading on Thursday, a day after markets jumped and the Dow Jones Industrial Average posted it's biggest single-day surge. Special: Movies to Watch this Christmas One of the best things about Christmas aside from stuffing your face and opening presents is of course enjoying some good movies. These are the ones we think are to watch at the cinema this holiday season. Tiny Indonesian church pray for tsunami victims on Christmas day A few dozen congregants gathered at a little church just outside Indonesia's tsunami disaster zone on Christmas day to pray for the victims of the deadly disaster. Queen arrives at Sandringham Church on Christmas Day Queen and royal family arrive at Sandringham Church on Christmas Day Mariah Carey's evergreen Christmas hit breaks streaming record Mariah Carey’s 24 year old holiday hit ‘All I Want For Christmas’ is still breaking records and just set a new one-day record on Spotify on Christmas Eve. Follow a DIY Christmas star Christmas decorations don't have to follow the rules of convention, as DIY-expert Han-Shuen Lee demonstrates. Just a few steps can transform wooden skewers and a styrofoam ball into a modern Christmas star. Duchess of Sussex: 2018 fashion highlights With the Christmas season approaching we take a look back at the Duchess of Sussex's 2018 fashion highlights. Duchess of Cambridge: 2018 fashion highlights With the Christmas season approaching we take a look back at the Duchess of Cambridge's 2018 fashion highlights. Christmas lights synced to ill child's heart-beat London Christmas lights synced to ill child's heart-beat Fiat wraps up a 500 in time for Christmas Fiat has covered a 500 in brown paper ahead of their #WrappedbyFiat Christmas Eve campaign. Istanbul attack nightclub demolished Reina nightclub, where 39 people died on New Year's Eve, has been pulled down by the authorities. Wall Street rally pauses but mints weekly gain The S&P 500 ended marginally lower in a choppy session on Friday, but major indexes posted weekly gains for the first time in December.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.