Sesona Ngqakamba Cheryl Zondi, the first witness to take the stand in the trial of Nigerian pastor Timothy Omotoso, has launched a foundation – the Cheryl Zondi Foundation – to support women and children who have been abused. The foundation, whose tag line is "turning pain into purpose", was established to help survivors of mental, emotional, spiritual and sexual abuse in sacred places such as churches. Zondi launched the foundation during a media briefing in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, on Tuesday. She said it was astounding to see the number of rape cases laid by other victims since she spoke out in court. She believes this should serve as a wake-up call. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. "I have decided with the institutional support of the CRL Rights Commission to start the Cheryl Zondi Foundation and I am pleased to announce that it's an officially registered NPO," said Zondi. The launch was attended by, among others, Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, commissioners from the CRL Rights Commission, friends and family of Zondi and #TotalShutDown representatives. Zondi said lending her name to the foundation never crossed her mind at first but after reflecting on her own pain and that of other victims, it made sense for her to attach her identity to it. 'Great lack' of psychological and legal support for victims She said through the foundation she wanted to help women and young people who have gone through the same experience that she did while in "sacred places". "Because trust me, there are countless, boundless, faceless and nameless victims out there whose cases will not get similar support or media coverage," said Zondi. She said she and other survivors who are yet to take the stand as witnesses in the Omotoso trial had first-hand experience of the "great lack" of psychological and legal support for victims who have been abused in sacred spaces in both religious and traditional spaces. READ: Moral responsibility for Omotoso lies with the churches "When the perpetrator you speak out against is a spiritual leader and is someone who uses people's pre-existing beliefs to manipulate and control them, you put yourself in a very difficult and vulnerable position," she said. She said people who were controlled and manipulated by church leaders were devoted to their leaders and would take on anyone who publicly speaks out against their religious representatives. "When you speak out, you are immediately exposed to a whole other dimension of danger, danger from nameless people, faceless people. People who are willing to do anything to support their leader without receiving anything in return," she said. Zondi said the foundation was also started to encourage victims to break their silence and speak about their experiences. She said the foundation would also support them through the legal processes that come with speaking out. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Marinda Steyn takes the stand in Krugersdorp murder trial WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State finished its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part2) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 4 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 3 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues her testimony | Part 2 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 1 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.
Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Bonang Matheba's pays the taxman, matter struck off roll The Specialized Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg has on Tuesday, struck off the roll the tax evasion charges against TV personality and Businesswoman Bonang Matheba. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". WATCH: Two 'high-ranking gangsters' among mourners at Pete Mihalik's funeral The funeral of slain Cape Town lawyer Pete Mihalik was held at the St Mary's Cathedral on Saturday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  