Ntwaagae Seleka The goodwill truck from the Gift of the Givers. (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Disaster relief organisation Gift of the Givers is expected to deliver tons of bottled water to the drought-stricken Beaufort West Municipality in the Western Cape on Friday. The organisation says it has started loading trucks with bottled water at its Maitland warehouse in Cape Town from 09:00. Gift of the Givers' aid comes as an emergency measure to assist the municipality, its community and holidaymakers, said the founder of the organisation, Dr Imtiaz Sooliman. "Gift of the Givers has intervened in Beaufort West with R10m of water projects since November 2017, including the drilling of five boreholes near the Gamka Dam, two boreholes at schools and two boreholes at old age homes in the town. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. "Hundreds of tons of bottled water have been sent since August 2018. Financial support from government will enable us to drill many more boreholes at very strategic sites to partially alleviate the water challenges until the rains arrive," he said. Sooliman requested that all travellers passing through Beaufort West drop off some bottled water at their facility, which is situated on the main road and is visible to everyone passing. READ: Gift of the Givers to unveil aquifer project in drought-stricken Beaufort West Beaufort West is dependent on three different water sources, mainly the Gamka Dam, Springfontein Dam and Walker Dam, and 36 boreholes in six aquifers, and a water reclamation plant. In a statement released by the municipality, it said the drought had taken its toll on the area and the municipality could no longer provide water to its people to cover basic services and needs. "The town is literally on its knees to find ways to provide water to the community. Emergency bottled water in the two storerooms are running low due to the municipality distributing 14 000 litres per day, with each household receiving only 10 litres," the statement read. WATCH: Land of Thirst - voices from the drought-stricken central Karoo In the absence of rain, only 27 out of 40 boreholes are now functional. The reclamation plant has not been serviced for the past two months and will be serviced this coming weekend. This will result in many areas in town having no access to water. All three reservoirs are critically low and are struggling to provide water to the community. The situation is compounded by tourists and travellers passing through the town.  Edmonton swimming pool without salt or chlorine draws lineups A new naturally filtered swimming pool in Edmonton is bringing in long lines of swimmers. The pool uses plants, zooplankton and granite instead of chlorine or salt to filter its emerald-green water.  . Edmonton swimming pool without salt, chlorine draws lineups A new naturally filtered swimming pool in Edmonton is bringing in long lines of swimmers. The pool uses plants, zooplankton and granite instead of chlorine or salt to filter its emerald-green water.  . 'Five kids and no water' The big thaw has caused burst water mains and leaks - leaving thousands without water. Blue Planet II: Filming the rarely witnessed 'boiling sea' Episode four of BBC's Blue Planet II captures the rarely witnessed 'boiling sea'; a feeding frenzy of thousands of tuna leaping out of the water to catch their prey. Thailand cave rescue: Diver dies from lack of oxygen A diver trying to save those trapped in a flooded cave in Thailand has died. 

Saman Gunan, a former Thai Seal, died from a lack of oxygen. He passed out under water and efforts to resuscitate him failed. Clean TeQ Holdings to join forces with Ionic Industries 24 Sep 2018 - Clean TeQ Holdings (ASX:CLQ) will join forces with Ionic Industries to further develop a graphene-oxide based water filtration membrane. Flooded Thai farmers support rescue effort Efforts to free the boys trapped in a Thai cave have seen nearby farms saturated with water. International team join hunt for boys missing in Thai cave U.S. forces and British divers joined the search for 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach believed trapped by floodwaters in a cave in Thailand's Chiang Rai province on Thursday. Serbia: Arsenic in drinking water The drinking water in parts of Serbia has been contaminated with arsenic for years. Nearly a million people are affected. The maximum allowed concentration of the carcinogenic toxin was exceeded by as much as 27 times. Singing and dancing as Cyril Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa has been elected as South Africa's new president and celebrations followed the announcement in the South African Parliament. Shree Renuka Sugars jumps 15% in 5 sessions Shree Renuka Sugars will double Ethanol capacity to 24 Cr litres in 18 months. Shree Renuka jumps 15% in 5 sessions Shree Renuka Sugars will double Ethanol capacity to 24 Cr litres in 18 months. Thousands make ice fog to mark solstice Residents of Heilongjiang in China spray hot water into freezing air to mark the shortest day. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. Clean water for the Wayuu in Colombia A water shortage in northeastern Colombia is affecting the Wayuu people. Their children are particularly vulnerable. Small desalination plants may be the solution. Mitte smart water machine Mitte is revolutionizing the way we drink water at home with our first of its kind smart water machine that harnesses the power of the natural water cycle. Fredericton resident feels prepared if river floods worsen Flood waters are rising along the St. John River and other waterways in New Brunswick due to recent rain and snow melt. One Fredericton man says despite the threat of flooding, he wouldn't consider moving away from the area. Camp of displaced Syrians flooded by heavy rain Heavy rains flood a camp of displaced Syrians in Atme, near the Turkish border. People airlifted from Japan flood waters The country's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, says the rescue effort is a "race against the clock". Thieves snatch shark using pram A horn shark was stolen from an aquarium using a baby's pram, the thieves carried it in a bucket leaving a trail of water as they left. Indian police use water cannon and tear gas at protesting farmers Police fired tear gas and water cannons at thousands of protesting farmers heading for the capital, New Delhi, to demand better prices for their produce. Volunteer cook 'turned our life around' A single mum who suffers with fibromyalgia has said a volunteer cook "turned her life around". Hichilema on 'degrading' prison treatment Mr Hichilema says he was left for eight days in a room without electricity, water or a toilet. Heavy rains threaten Virginia dam The National Weather Service is warning that days of rain could cause a dam in Lynchburg, Virginia to fail, potentially inundating the city of around 80,000. Rain eases in India's Kerela, but fears emerge over disease in camps A deluge in India’s flood-stricken southwestern state of Kerala finally let up on Sunday but authorities fear an outbreak of disease among two million people crammed into relief camps. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. CIMIC Group wins Taswater contract 11 Dec 2018 - Cimic Group (ASX:CIM) companies, UGL and CPB Contractors have been selected by Taswater as the preferred contractors to deliver water and wastewater infrastructure, and, major regional water projects in Tasmania WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Info-film: What is a forest and what is it for? Many peoples' lives depend on the forest and the animals within, but all of us need the forest. It's crucial to the water cycle, helps prevent against landslides and erosion and is an active player in climate protection. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. Rescuers dig for survivors in flooded Japan Rescuers in western Japan dug through mud and rubble early on Tuesday, racing to find survivors after torrential rain that began last week unleashed floods and landslides that killed up to 130 people, with dozens missing. Making instant snow out of boiling water Record cold temperatures and hurricane-force winds make Mount Washington fun for science experiments. Daily life in an eco-village Residents of Sieben Linden in Germany have embraced an eco-friendly way of life. Their dwellings feature thatched roofs, they're economical with resources, and they don't waste water by flushing toilets. But is the eco-village a realistic model? India's polluted waters kill thousands Haldwani, a town in northern India, isn't the only Indian town with a clean water scarcity. 80 percent of India's surface water is polluted and each year thousands die due to water-borne diseases. Drinking water shortage on Langeoog Rising sea levels and hefty storm surges are threatening to contaminate the German island of Langeoog's freshwater lenses. Residents have accused the EU of failing to take sufficient action to tackle climate change. Iraq’s second city's waters have turned deadly Residents of the southern Iraqi oil hub of Basra are fighting a daily struggle to get safe drinking water due to the unprecedented levels of pollution at its main lifeline, Shatt al-Arab waterway. Kenyan protesters call for breastfeeding rights Protesters marched in Nairobi in support of a Kenyan woman who had to breastfeed her child in the toilet of a restaurant because the staff said she was being "offensive". Caribbean Wakeboarding Join World Nomads’ Miles Rowland on his first wakeboarding adventure. In the Gulf of Paria, Miles meets up Berkeley and Michael from Liquid Adrenalin Water Sports to get his blood pumping at sea. WATCH: New toilet uses 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres A new toilet that uses only 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres could be a new fixture in South African homes. Meridian Energy hydrology challenges in first half FY18 19 Oct 2018 - Meridian Energy (ASX:MEZ) saw significant hydrology challenges in the first half of the financial year, EBITDAF in the first half of 2018 was 7 per cent down on the prior year. In storm's wake, deadly water below and hope from above Rising flood waters threatened communities across the Carolinas on Tuesday as storm Florence menaced the U.S. Northeast with heavy rains and tornadoes after killing at least 32 people. This Major Discovery Just Made Colonizing Mars a Lot More Feasible Have you heard the news? Mars has ice, and that ice is made from clean water. With this discovery we're one step closer to colonizing Mars. Steady Q2 for Jain irrigation "Q2 is usually the weakest quarter due to the rains," says Anil Jain. Torrential rain causes flooding in US city Evacuation orders are issued for parts of Lynchburg, Virginia, as heavy rains lead to flooded roads. WATCH: How Do Clouds Make Rain? From evaporation to condensation, here's a fun experiment to explain to kids how clouds are formed and it eventually rains.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.