Kaveel Singh President Cyril Ramaphosa (Gallo Images/Sowetan/Veli Nhlapo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories As 2018 wraps up, President Cyril Ramaphosa has wished South Africans well, calling for camaraderie and non-violence as we enter a new year. Ramaphosa released a three-part video on Monday encouraging citizens to raise their hands in 2019 and embody the spirit of Thuma Mina. "We must actively participate in the transformation of our country. Each one of us has the ability to make a meaningful difference. Having welcomed a new dawn at the beginning of this year, we can be certain that the sun is indeed rising higher in the SA sky." Ramaphosa thanked the matric class of 2018 for their hard work, discipline and diligence. "We congratulate each and every successful candidate, and their families and teachers and communities that made them succeed. You can only take care of the future if we take care of ourselves."   Building 'a better SA' He urged citizens to give one another "the gift of tolerance, patience, safety and respect". Reflecting on the year gone by, Ramaphosa said there had been a great deal of "shared effort to build a better SA". "Our nation grew closer together [on the] centenary of the birth of our founding president Nelson Mandela and the stalwart of our struggle Albertina Sisulu. As we celebrated these remarkable champions of freedom, we reaffirmed our commitment to the values they embodied and the principles which they fought and lived [for]."   He said the country had also lost many great freedom fighters. "We bid farewell to several South Africans who served their people with distinction and commitment. They dedicated their talents, lives and energies to build a better SA and world. We will miss them and continue to honour them."     WATCH: Ekurhuleni is the 'engine of economic growth' - Ramaphosa at launch of train plant President Cyril Ramaphosa has described Ekurhuleni, where the official launch of a  multi-billion rand train manufacturing plant was held, as the engine of economic growth in the country. The plant is expected to deliver two new trains by December 20 Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. Everything you need to know about Cyril Ramaphosa's #CabinetReshuffle President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced changes to the National Executive at the Union Buildings, Pretoria. WATCH: Ramaphosa responds to the call for an intervention in Cape Flats gangsterism President Cyril Ramaphosa and Police Minister Bheki Cele formally launched the anti-gang unit in an effort to disorganise and disable the criminal economy linked to gangsterism in Hanover Park and surrounding areas. WATCH: Peter Storey on how Rivonia Trial prisoners on Robben Island changed him Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. Thousands commemorate Winnie Mandela She and Nelson Mandela were a symbol of the country's anti-apartheid struggle for three decades. Funeral of anti-apartheid activist Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Millions of South Africans gathered to say goodbye to anti-apartheid activist Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in a stadium in Soweto. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: This 22-year-old accounting student is changing healthcare in his community When Thembekile Mahintsho's father died in 2015, the 22-year-old accounting student became determined to bring accessible healthcare to his community in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. Meet Winnie Mandela's dressmaker Sonwabile Ndamase tells the BBC how the late anti-apartheid campaigner's life influenced her fashion. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on EU to lift sanctions still in place against Zimbabwe Zimbabwe was on the agenda in talks President Cyril Ramaphosa had with European Union (EU) leaders on Thursday. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. The story of jazz legend Masekela Legendary jazz trumpeter Hugh Masekela, a leading figure in the struggle to end apartheid and "the father of South African jazz", has died aged 78. South Africa's nuclear secret South Africa's apartheid government built nuclear weapons in the 1970's because they were worried about Soviet expansion into Africa. In the 90's, President F W de Klerk dismantled them. Why did South Africa get rid of its nuclear weapons? South Africa's nuclear secret South Africa's apartheid government built nuclear weapons in the 1970's because they were worried about Soviet expansion into Africa. In the 90's, President F W de Klerk dismantled them. Why did South Africa get rid of its nuclear weapons? WATCH: White people failed the TRC by not attending - Peter Storey Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST WATCH: This 22-year-old accounting student is changing healthcare in his community When Thembekile Mahintsho's father died in 2015, the 22-year-old accounting student became determined to bring accessible healthcare to his community in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... Was Mandela a hero or a 'sell-out'? The BBC asked young South Africans for their views on anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela. Ramaphosa steals show at summit: 'We need leadership, not leaders' South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. South Africa's Winnie Madikizela-Mandela dies aged 81 Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a prominent anti-apartheid activist and the ex-wife of Nelson Mandela, has died at the age of 81. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels for summit EU and South African leaders meet in Brussels to review relations and discuss ways of intensifying and broadening their cooperation, at the 7th summit between the two sides, which takes place 100 years after Nelson Mandela's birth. The summit will... WATCH - Nene out, Mboweni in: here's everything you need to know President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Tuesday afternoon that former Reserve Bank Governor Tito Mboweni would be the new finance minister. 'Rainbow nation' is still a dream in South Africa With few prospects for the future, the freedom Nelson Mandela fought for has little to offer young people. Today's South Africa has many troubles, including a high proportion of people without jobs. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. Theresa May visits Nelson Mandela's cell on Robben Island Theresa May visits Robben Island in South Africa, which housed political prisoner Nelson Mandela. The Prime Minister is on a three-day trip to Africa on a trade mission designed to bolster the UK's post-Brexit fortunes. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: 'Edna Molewa's life was one of sacrifice, selflessness and service'  - Cyril Ramaphosa An official funeral service for the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa was held in Pretoria on Saturday.

President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at the Tshwane Events Centre. 'Our people shouldn't have to travel hours to work' - Ramaphosa launches Atlantis economic hub "Our people shouldn't have to travel for hours and hours to work." That was the message from President Cyril Ramaphosa at the launch of the Atlantis Special Economic Zone in Cape Town on Thursday. WATCH: The mini budget in under 3 minutes Fin24's Moeshfieka Botha gives an overview of what Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said about VAT, spending shortfalls and the economy in his maiden mini budget  speech in Parliament on Wednesday. Singing and dancing as Cyril Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa has been elected as South Africa's new president and celebrations followed the announcement in the South African Parliament. South Africa's Ramaphosa outlines stimulus plan for ailing economy South Africa's president announced a multi-billion-dollar stimulus programme on Friday, earmarking funds for job creation and infrastructure development as he seeks to make good on a pledge to revive the country's ailing economy. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. WATCH: This is what Kessie Nair would say to President Ramaphosa's face, given the chance Former Durban councillor and convicted fraudster, Kessie Nair, told News24 if he had a chance to speak to President Cyril Ramaphosa face to face, he would say the following: ...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.