Correspondent Former NPA head Shaun Abrahams (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former national director of public prosecutions (NDPP) Shaun Abrahams has wished his newly appointed successor, Shamila Batohi, well, the Sowetan reported on Wednesday Abrahams is overseas and spoke to the publication via telephone just after Batohi's appointment was announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday. Abrahams reportedly said he had worked with Batohi when she was in charge of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in KwaZulu-Natal. "I have worked with Shamila. She headhunted me for a post in Pietermaritzburg while she was the DPP [director of public prosecutions] in KwaZulu-Natal," he told Sowetan. The newspaper asked him if he had any advice for her on how to deal with the challenges that come with the post, to which Abrahams simply said that he "wishes her well". Batohi will take up her post in February 2019 after serving her notice as senior legal advisor at the International Criminal Court, News24 reported. Batohi, who is the first female serving as an NDPP, says the Presidency has recognised the role of women in the pursuit of equality, justice and a fair society. READ: Introducing Shamila Batohi: The country's first female NPA boss "This is a historic moment for women," she said. "Today, your NDPP stands with you and together we stand for justice and the nation," Batohi said, adding that she will serve the country with humility and dedication. Ramaphosa said the NDPP occupies a vital position in South African democracy, adding that the position makes an essential contribution to upholding the rule of law. "The NDPP must ensure that the National Prosecuting Authority exercises its functions without fear, favour or prejudice and should not be beholden to any vested interests, whether in politics, in business or elsewhere," he said. Ramaphosa also said the NDPP needs to be able to take decisions independently and impartially. House on fire During her interview, Batohi described the office of the NPA as a "house on fire". She also described the kind of leader that she believed should head up the NPA. She told the panel that she believes that one of the measures of the NPA should be how much confidence the people of South Africa have in a national director. She also acknowledged that when one becomes a manager it is a "terrifying prospect" but being a manager meant that one needs to "inspire people". Batohi has been a senior legal adviser to the prosecutor at the International Criminal Court since 2009. She was the first woman to be appointed as a director of public prosecutions when she took up the job in 2009 in KwaZulu-Natal. Batohi is also known for leading the prosecution of disgraced Proteas cricket captain Hansie Cronje at the King Commission of inquiry. ALSO READ: All you need to know about new NPA boss Shamila Batohi Shortlist Tuesday's announcement follows the consideration of five nominees shortlisted by an advisory panel chaired by Energy Minister Jeff Radebe. The other nominees were advocates Siyabulela Mapoma, Simphiwe Mlotshwa, Rodney de Kock, and Andrea Johnson. They were selected from 11 candidates who were interviewed - with media present - at the Union Buildings between November 14 and November 16. Ramaphosa was given 90 days from August 13 to appoint a new NDPP following the exit of then NDPP Shaun Abrahams. The Constitutional Court declared Abrahams' appointment unconstitutional. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   WATCH: South Africa's Constitutional Court ruling on ousted prosecuting head explained The Constitutional Court found on Monday that the appointment of National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss Shaun Abrahams was unconstitutional and invalid. Here's what you need to know. Watch. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. ANALYSIS: What now for South Africa's ousted National Prosecuting Authority head Shaun Abraham? News24's Jeanette Chabalala and Pieter du Toit discuss Monday morning's ruling by the Constitutional Court, which found the appointment of National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Shaun Abrahams unconstitutional and invalid. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  