Jenni Evans WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. Jason Rohde. (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Jason Rohde will spend Christmas in Pollsmoor Prison after his fresh bid for bail was turned down in the Western Cape High Court. Rohde's daughter Kathryn was supposed to have testified in her father's sentencing proceedings on Thursday, but only made it as far as the witness box before changing her mind. This was during a fresh bid by Rohde to apply for bail while he waits for the outcome of his sentencing proceedings. Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe turned down his application. "I am not persuaded that it is in the interests of justice that bail be [granted]," she said. This was after Rohde's defence advocate Graham van der Spuy launched the bail bid in an attempt to get his client home for the time being, even with a monitoring bracelet if necessary.   On Wednesday, a social worker testifying testifying in aggravation of sentence told the court that Rohde's three daughters were struggling to come to terms with their mother's death and did not want to lose him too once he is sentenced for her murder. Rian Perry, a social worker at the provincial social development department, testified about his victim impact report. He compiled the report after interviewing Susan's family, the couple's daughters, the family psychologist and a school principal. Kathryn, 20, is a second-year university student and the twins Alex and Josie, 18, recently finished their matric exams. Perry told the court that the said they were torn between mourning for their mother and having concern for their father. "They still require closure and surety in this matter to be able to deal with the mother's death," he said.   He added: "The child (Kathryn) and her siblings have reportedly been fearful of saying things that the court could use against their father." They indicated to him that they did not want to lose their remaining parent and said jailing him would affect them significantly. After the judge's ruling on the bail application, the snap of handcuffs could be heard and Rohde was taken back down the stairs to to the court's holding cells. He will remain in Pollsmoor Prison until his sentencing proceedings resume on February 18, 2019. Last month, Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan at the Spier wine estate, and of obstruction of justice. Van der Spuy had submitted that Rohde's children needed him now more than ever, and said that - with his assets "decimated", except for a property in Plettenberg Bay - there was no way that the court would return in February and hear that Rohde had fled to South America. Salie-Hlophe said that she had heard that his children were being well cared for, and denied him bail. Rohde-saak in die duister Jason Rohde, wat op 8 November skuldig bevind is aan die moord op sy vrou, Susan, was Woensdag in die hooggeregshof in Kaapstad vir vonnisverrigtinge.
Kort nadat hy opgedaag het, het die krag afgegaan, en is hofverrigtinge vir eers gestaak. Kylie Minogue serving up free Guinness for Irish fans at rescheduled shows Kylie Minogue just gave Irish fans something to smile about by offering up free pints of Guinness to mark her tour return. 'The Favourite' breaks records at the British Independent Film Awards The British Independent Film Awards just took place at the weekend and Sunday night saw a whole host of the A list including Jason Isaacs, Josh O'Connor and Rupert Everett, taking to the red carpet for the fancy affair. Jason Isaac enjoyed being part of the jury at the 2018 BIFAs The actor shared his thoughts on being part of the jury at the 2018 BIFAs. Stars walk 'Aquaman' red carpet Stars Jason Momoa and Amber Heard walk the red carpet in London for the world premiere of Aquaman, DC Comics’ new superhero movie. Dallas apartment fire forces residents to jump Some residents of a Dallas apartment complex leaped from third-floor windows onto mattresses and a woman dropped her baby to a bystander to escape flames that left three people hurt. Thanksgiving rush gets off to a good start in NYC Holiday travelers going through Penn Station in New York City the day before Thanksgiving say it's been pretty painless so far this year. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. Jason Rohde in en uit hof Jason Rohde in en uit hof Jason Aldean gears up for CMAs Country music superstar Jason Aldean admits he has his eye on the Entertainer of the Year accolade at this year's Country Music Association Awards. Kylie Minogue 'surprised' she found love again Kylie Minogue has admitted she was "surprised" when she found love again with boyfriend Paul Solomons. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. WATCH: Jason Rohde guilty of murder; bail denied (full stream) Jason Rohde has been found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. Só hoor Rohde hy is skuldig. Só hoor Rohde hy is skuldig. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? Labour councillor joins calls to ban fireworks sales to the public Labour councillor Jason Pritchard is leading calls for a ban on selling fireworks to the public, with an online petition already gathering more than 180,000 signatures. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? Video van Mihalik tydens Rohde-verhoor Dié video van adv. Pete Mihalik is tydens die verhoor van Jason Rohde, wat teregstaan weens die moord op sy vrou, geneem. Video: Adrian de Kock “Finally I get a chance to see daughter’s tennis practice” Chris Paul on suspension Houston Rockets guard Chris Paul is trying to take positives from his two-game suspension for his role in the incident with Rajon Rondo and the Los Angeles Lakers. Jason Reitman: 'I got to write a movie with experts' 'The Front Runner' director talks about his latest movie at the BFI London Film Festival. Moment Chicago police officer hears verdict Jason Van Dyke listens as a jury finds him guilty of the second-degree murder of Laquan McDonald. Kylie Minogue cancels shows due to throat infection Kylie Minogue has axed shows in Dublin and Belfast due to illness, but she promised to make it up to fans after falling ill with a throat infection. Kylie Minogue cancels concert due to vocal strain Kylie Minogue has just had to cancel a couple of concerts in Dublin and Belfast from her The Golden Tour due to vocal strain. High-tech car thieves drive off with Toyota in seconds Police are hunting high-tech car thieves after they were caught on video using sophisticated equipment to hack into and steal a vehicle. Jennifer Lopez appreciates Alex Rodriguez American star Jennifer Lopez has admitted she's fortunate to have such a supportive boyfriend. Kylie Minogue gushes over new romance Kylie Minogue says her romance with Paul Solomons "doesn't compare" to her previous lovers. Building for Voice with Jason Mars (Clinc) and Alex Smola (Amazon Web Services) | Disrupt SF 2018 Once upon a time, we used our voices for the vast majority of our communication. And then came the written word, and then came the internet. But everything old is new again. Hear from Jason Mars and Alex Smola as they discuss how voice may be the ... ‘The Front Runner’ star Jackman says he has no political ambitions Actor Hugh Jackman says after making the U.S. politics themed movie “The Front Runner,” he wants to “run even further” from the political world. Jason Reitman directed the film, showing at the Toronto International Film Festival. United in Discord with Jason Citron (Discord) Hear CEO Jason Citron talk about how the company he founded dominated an emerging market for messaging and leveled up online gaming by erasing the stereotype of the lonely gamer. Betting on a Touchdown with Jason Robins (DraftKings) DraftKings has thrust itself to the forefront of disruption, bringing fantasy sports to the mainstream. But not without a few bumps alongs the way. Jason Robins (DraftKings) on eSports Jason Robins of DraftKings says betting on eSports is coming, but will face regulation before taking off #TCDisrupt Jason Robins (DraftKings) on the future of sports betting Jason Robins (DraftKings) says that the fragmentation of sports betting will consolidate over time #TCDisrupt Can sports betting be social? Jason Robins (DraftKings) says the legalization of sports betting has opened doors for new features on his platform #TCDisrupt Simon Cowell hints at Jason Orange for X Factor panel Simon Cowell has hinted he will ask Robbie William's former Take That bandmate Jason Orange to step in for him on 'The X Factor' judging panel. Kim Kardashian West's 'transformative' prison reform work Kim Kardashian West's work on prison reform has been praised as "transformative" by activist Jason Flom. Live Demo with Jason Mars (Clinc) See the latest in conversational artificial intelligence with this startup out of Ann Arbor, Michigan. Let's take a look back at what the A list has been up to this week Priyanka Chopra flashes engagement ring for the first time, Jason Statham and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley reportedly to wed on New Year's Eve and more! Witness says Westminster crash 'looked deliberate' A witness says the car crash at the Houses of Parliament 'looked deliberate' as a man was arrested at the scene. Jason Williams from Kennington said the suspect got out of the car very calmly, rather than being dragged out by police. Jason Statham and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley reportedly to wed on New Year's Eve Jason Statham and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley are allegedly all set to get married on New Year's Eve. Jason Statham rules himself out of being next James Bond Jason Statham has ruled himself out of the running to be the next James Bond. Exclusive Interview: Jason Statham isn't afraid of anything Action man Jason Statham's latest movie 'The Meg' sees him go head to head with a  70 foot shark. While the size of the monster in this movie might be the frightening bit, Jason doesn't really have a problem with sharks. Celebrity Birthday: Jason Momoa On the 1st of August, Jason Momoa celebrates his birthday. Jason Momoa honoured to play Hawaiian superhero Jason Momoa is honoured to be playing the first Hawaiian superhero in a big screen feature. The actor is gearing up to promote the DC Comics film 'Aquaman', in which he reprises his role as Arthur Curry aka Aquaman from 2017's 'Justice League'. Celebrity Closeup: Jason Sudeikis Funny man Jason Sudeikis grew up in Kansas. The athletic youngster was offered a basketball scholarship to attend college, but after just one semester was kicked off the team for bad grades. Celebrity Birthday: Jason Statham On the 26th of July, Jason Statham celebrates his birthday. Jason deCaires Taylor is Saving Coral Reefs By Creating Living Art Concrete transforms into artful messages in this sculptor's hands, & Jason deCaires Taylor manages to save coral reefs at the same time. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  