Canny Maphanga A young motorist has heaped praise on two Good Samaritans via social media after a punctured tyre left him stranded on his way to Bethlehem in the Free State. The opening line of his post starts with: "You'll never find a beautiful country like South Africa. "On my way to Bethlehem from Potch, I got a puncture and I was driving a friend’s bakkie, taking some stuff home. "I was so excited to go home that I even forgot to check if the car had everything, only to find the car doesn’t have a car jack and a wheel spanner," Neville Manchu said in his Facebook post on Friday.   While Manchu stood on the side of the road seeking assistance, cars continued to just drive by. Following an hour of frustration, the young man was about to give up when two good Samaritans showed up. "Not only did they lend me their tools, but helped me also, because I was struggling to take off the messed up tyre. The other oom even had to lie down on his back to jack the car," he wrote. This is when the three men discovered that it would be impossible to take the spare wheel out from underneath the car. What followed was a selfless act by the two men, says Manchu. "You wanna know what happened? "The old men went to the nearest town (Parys) to get me a second-hand tyre. They got me a tyre and didn’t ask for a penny from me," he explained. Manchu believes this selfless act from these two strangers is a sign that "the land is healed". "I was in awe of who God is. We prayed, 'With a love unbroken, bind our hearts together, here on earth let Your will be done'. Our land is healed," he concluded. Bye Bye Car Driverless cars will be how we move around in the future. In 10 years' time, Ford Motors' Bill Ford says his company will sell mobility, not cars. We ask the experts, including Tesla pioneer Elon Musk, what they think the future has in store for us. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Coup d'accélérateur pour la voiture électrique Concentration record en CO2, chaleurs extrêmes, recul des glaces: les derniers indicateurs du réchauffement montrent l'accélération d'un phénomène planétaire et disent l'urgence à agir, alors que s'ouvre dimanche la 24e conférence de l'ONU sur les... China to halt added tariffs on U.S.-made cars China will temporarily suspend additional 25 percent tariffs on U.S.-made vehicles and auto parts starting in January. Tense protests in Bethlehem on Nakba Day Palestinians, both Christian and Muslim, have taken to the streets of Bethlehem to protest on Nakba Day. So far, more than 50 people have been killed in Gaza by Israeli forces. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Via is looking into developing its own vehicle Daniel Ramot (Via) says his company is looking into developing its own van to serve future cities #TCDisrupt Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. Navistar profit surges higher Navistar International's quarterly profit quadrupled and beat analysts' estimates for the fifth straight quarter. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. 'Messi is incredible'! Neymar says Lionel will be missed greatly in forthcoming rivals match Neymar said on Friday (12th October) that all "for those who love football", Lionel Messi will be missed when his side meet Argentina on Tuesday (16th October) after Brazil beat Saudi Arabia 2-0 in a friendly international at the King Saud Univers... Car demand collapse outruns GM's moves General Motors' monumental announcement that it will close three car assembly plants in North America and slash its workforce will only partially close the gap between capacity and demand for the automaker's sedans. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. Mogadishu car bomb kills at least seven civilians Seven civilians were killed and five were wounded in a new car bomb at a busy market in Mogadishu. The explosion occurred after security forces stopped a suspicious vehicle at the market in the south of the city. John Legend preparing to 'Jingle Jangle' John Legend is going to be following up his success with Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert with a Christmas film for Netflix. Trump says China to cut tariffs on U.S.-made autos after trade war truce China has agreed to "reduce and remove" tariffs below the 40 percent level that Beijing is currently charging on U.S.-made vehicles, U.S. President Donald Trump said, as a trade war truce between the two countries gathers pace, cheering markets.  As Police: one person dead in Nevada shooting Police say one person is dead and another is in custody following a shooting at a Nevada church. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Chrissy Teigen attacks husband's Jesus Christ critic Chrissy Teigen has proved that she is not to be messed with on social media especially when it comes to her husband. WATCH: Behind the scenes at the De Hoek plaza The De Hoek Plaza located in Heidelburg, Gauteng, on a normal day in December 5, 2017 saw 715 motor vehicles pass the tolls at 3pm and saw 2,621 motor vehicles pass through its lanes on it busiest day December 22, 2017, during the same hour. BMW presents new autonomous, electric car in Los Angeles German high-end carmaker BMW presents a new electric and autonomous car in Los Angeles ahead of the Auto Show, hoping that the model can take on Tesla in the electric car sector. Electric speedster: Cupra's e-Racer Cupra plans to use its latest creation - the eRacer - in the E-TCR Series, the first all-electric touring car series that's due to debut in 2020. We take a look at the car that could lead the charge into the electric era in car racing. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Burning rubber and trying to master the art of spinning Spinning has become a big part of the motorsport culture in SA. Ernest Page gets behind the wheel of a street built drift car and learns a bit more about what it represents. U.S. plans to rewrite rules that impede self-driving cars The Trump administration is moving ahead with plans to revise safety rules that bar fully self-driving cars from the roads without equipment such as steering wheels, pedals and mirrors. Toyota, SoftBank team up as push to self-drive accelerates Toyota and SoftBank say they will team up to develop car services that rely on self-driving technology, such as hospital shuttles, as they envision a future in which fewer people drive their own vehicles. As David Pollard reports, the partnership ... Blind backpacker visits Bethlehem Completely blind and severely deaf backpacker Tony Giles visits the birthplace of Jesus. Pope on Christmas: Bethlehem trek is like today's migrations Pope Francis likened the journey of Mary and Joseph to Bethlehem to the migrations of millions of people today  in his Christmas homily. Cambridge choir sing from the top of Chapel Tower The Choir of St John's College, Cambridge, perform the Ascension Day carol from the top of the Chapel Tower at St John's College. Saudi women hit the road Women in Saudi Arabia are finally allowed to get behind the wheel of a car. How to get the best from your tyres Tyres are one of the more expensive expendables on a car - here's some ways to make them last longer, and get the best from them. Wheel flying off truck A car narrowly avoids being hit by a tyre which flies off a passing truck. New petrol and diesel vehicles to be banned from 2040 in bid to tackle pollution New diesel and petrol cars and vans will be banned from 2040 as part of efforts to tackle air pollution, UK Environment Secretary Michael Gove has said. He also pledged to work with local authorities developing diesel scrappage schemes. Motorist storms runway of Lyon airport during intense police chase A 31-year old man rammed into a fence in Lyon international airport after entering the runway. Dozens of police and security officers on cars, motorcycles and even a helicopter took part in the operation. The offender left the car and attempted to... London mayor launches new electric car charging ports around the city Sadiq Khan has launched 51 new rapid charging points in London, which he hopes will help encourage people to get electric vehicles. They can charge vehicles like the new electric taxi up to full in just thirty minutes. Hate parking? This car shrinks itself to fit The latest entry into the market for tiny cars that can fit into tiny parking spaces may come from Israel, with a concept electric vehicle that can shrink its wheelbase to the size of a motorcycle. Matthew Larotonda reports Andorra hosts first ever electric vehicle snow race Electric vehicles are put to the test in this EV Snow Grand Prix, in an attempt to raise awareness for the capabilities, speed and acceleration of electric vehicles. Organisers hope that showing off the potential of electric vehicles will encourag... Tesco, Volkswagen to develop UK electric vehicle charging network Britain's biggest retailer Tesco has announced a deal with German automaker Volkswagen to develop 2,400 charging bays at 600 Tesco stores across the UK over the next three year. Francis Maguire reports on an industry in the midst of an electric revol Auto sales depict worrying trend Passenger vehicles sales down in Nov because of muted festive season, Inventory build-up has led to production cuts to correct inventories, says Vishnu Mathur, Director General, SIAM. Loading cars safely Forty percent of Germans vacation by car. But with all that luggage, it's important to know the safe way to load your vehicle. You can also save time and frustration by planning things right. Best winter getaway cars for less than GBP10,000 If you're planning to hit the road for leisure in the coming months, it would be worth having a car that can face the conditions. Here are some sub-GBP10,000 used cars that are up to the task. Protesters set cars on fire in Paris A car is set on fire on Saturday on Hoche avenue, close to Champs-Elysées avenue, as Paris was hit by violence in the latest demonstrations against President Emmanuel Macron. China cuts duty on U.S. car imports Auto sales in slow lane, low demand and high rates dent autos. Auto sales in the slow lane Tepid demand for passenger cars Why trucks trump cars for European investors Swedish truck maker Volvo has forecast slower demand for trucks in Europe and China next year.  But its profits are up - and as Julian Satterthwaite reports, investors are finding plenty of reasons to get on board truck makers, rather than their rivals in the car sector. Best winter-ready convertibles you can buy Convertibles aren't the first cars that come to mind in the winter, but there are some that are more than capable in the snow and ice. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. NASCAR Welcome to the adrenaline-fuelled world of NASCAR and the people who keep the cars on the oval. Peugeot 508 sedan The new mid-range French car combines strikingly elegant design with sportiness and high safety. Our test car is powered by a two-liter diesel engine, which of course meets the latest emissions standard.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.