Mxolisi Mngadi (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Suspicious money transactions have led to the arrest of four South African women employed as crew members for MSC Cruises. The women and three other crew members were arrested for allegedly smuggling cocaine from Jamaica to Miami in the US. Londiwe Shange, 27, Wandile Mhlongo, 29, and Thembeka Sokhulu, 36, all from KwaZulu-Natal, and Viwe Tshaka, 23, from the Eastern Cape, were arrested on November 17 at the Port of Miami. Department of International Relations and Cooperation spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya said they were aware of the arrests. "All South Africans arrested out of the country or in distress receive consular service. We will visit them in prison. We will coordinate any assistance they need at their own cost, like lawyers and family visits. We offer non-financial support to them. We are monitoring the case and also update the family," said Mabaya. A source told News24 that the women were sending lots of money back home through financial services company, Western Union. "The company became suspicious of their large transfers and an investigation into how much MSC Cruises paid them per month ensued. We are still shocked [at] why they agreed to be recruited by Jamaicans," the source said. Cocaine and cash The Miami Herald reported that US Customs and Border Protection found seven crew members with 7kg of cocaine in their possession or in their cabins during a drug sweep of the vessel, the MSC Seaside. It also reported that another MSC employee, Damion Hawthorne, 32, was arrested on charges of hiring five crew members for a smuggling operation. Federal prosecutors allege that Hawthorne recruited Shange, Mhlongo, and Sokhulu to pick up drugs when the MSC Seaside docked in Jamaica, and deliver them to someone in Miami, according to the report. US Customs and Border Protection officers also reportedly found just under 1kg of cocaine in each of the backpacks of two others, Errol Roy Sutherland, 39, and Carl Michael Smith, 27. "They were also found in possession of about $100 000 in cash. Their belongings were confiscated and all of their (bank) accounts have been frozen. Sadly, there were others who have been dismissed from work just because they were close to those who were arrested," the source told News24. The source said some of the crew who were also taken in for questioning that day even missed their ship. "Some were dismissed just because they were taken in for questioning. Others had their visas cancelled and were immediately deported from the US." 'Fully cooperated with the investigation' MSC Cruises PR manager Alison van den Heever confirmed that seven crew members of MSC Seaside had been arrested upon arrival at the Port of Miami on November 17. She said that, as soon as the matter had come to their attention, "we fully cooperated with the investigation conducted by the law enforcement authorities". However, she claimed that the seven were the only crew members dismissed. "The crew members who were arrested or deported by the US Customs and Border Protection have also been dismissed from their working contract. No other staff dismissals were made in relation to this matter. In the interest of the investigation, we are unable to provide any further details," said Van den Heever in an email reply to News24. MSC Cruises has a very strict, proactive and zero tolerance policy towards drugs on board its ships, which was applicable to crew and passengers, said Van den Heever. "The health, safety and wellbeing of our passengers and crew are our first priority and we therefore do not tolerate any illegal drugs or improper behaviour on board our ships. Any allegation which may suggest misconduct is always taken very seriously, and the company would always engage with law enforcement if needed," she said. Life in an open-air heroin camp A stretch of rail track in Philadelphia has become a refuge for addicts, but the city is about to descend. 158 'caravan' migrants granted U.S. entry Dozens more Central American caravan migrants were let into the United States to begin pleading their case for asylum despite sharp criticism from U.S. President Donald Trump. Israeli police arrests a Christian monk and beats other protesters Israeli police arrested a monk and beat several other protesters during a demonstration held by Coptic Christians outside the Church of the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem.
#Israel #Jerusalem #HolySepulcher 'Major incident' in town near Skripal poisoning A man and woman are in critical condition and are being tested for exposure to an unknown substance just miles from the British town where former Russian spy Sergei Skripal was poisoned in March. Italian police arrest new Mafia boss in Sicily Police arrests jeweller Mineo, 80, and at least 45 others in Sicily just before he was due to be officially anointed at a reconvened Mafia Commission, or Cupola. WATCH: Rubber bullets and teargas answer Westbury residents' pleas in fight against drugs, gun viole While drug dealing and the accompanying gun violence have been on the increase in Westbury, residents say their calls for a safer, drug-free community seem to go unheard as police allegedly fail to respond to complaints. Man facing drugs charges leaps from courthouse balcony A man facing drugs charges leaps from a Utah courthouse balcony in an escape bid on April 30. Christopher Clay Rudd, 35, had been arrested on drug allegations. Police said it is unclear whether Rudd was trying to injure himself. Opium addict at nine years old Young children are becoming dependent on the drug, as the amount produced in Afghanistan hits a new high. Demi Lovato 'knew the risks' of drugs she took Demi Lovato's alleged drug dealer claims she "knew the risks" of taking drugs and says he cares about her "very much". Drug trafficking syndicate raided by police An Australian-led police operation is said to have smashed an international drugs syndicate Indonesia frees Bali Nine drug smuggler Lawrence from prison The first member of the "Bali Nine" heroin-trafficking gang is released from prison after serving 13 years in Indonesia for carrying 2.6 kilograms (5.7 pounds) of heroin strapped to her body as she tried to fly out of the international airport on ... US trial of Mexican drug lord 'El Chapo' underway The trial of the infamous Mexican drug lord and escape artist Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman began in New York on Tuesday. Guzman's wife was seen leaving the courthouse after the proceedings. Video shows alleged El Chapo drug tunnel Prosecutors have started presenting evidence to jurors in the trial of the notorious drug smuggler known as El Chapo by giving them a video tour of a tunnel between Mexico and an Arizona warehouse. Colombia's battle with cocaine traffickers Colombia's anti-narcotics police are fighting a war on cocaine trafficking - which is being fuelled by demand in Europe and the US. Pina-coke-lada! Madrid police discover 67kg of cocaine in pineapple Police uncovered some 67kg (147lbs) of cocaine hidden in hollowed-out pineapples at a Madrid market. Up to a kilo (2.2lbs) of cocaine was packed into individual cylinders, coated in wax and encased in the pineapples, reportedly in Costa Rica, befo... 1.6 tonnes of cocaine seized from boat Two men have appeared in court after 1.6 tonnes of cocaine was seized from a boat in the English Channel. Spiritual first responders tackle MA drug crisis A group of pastors has teamed up with officers and drug counselors in New Bedford, Massachusetts to offer face-to-face interventions and comfort to homeless people struggling with opioid addiction. Pineapple cocaine ring Police in Portugal and Spain have seized cocaine hidden inside pineapples. Colombia seizes largest stash of cocaine ever Colombian police discovered 12 tonnes of cocaine, close to the routes used to smuggle cocaine to the US. Are You a Cocaine Tourist? Travel to Colombia with World Nomads’ Stephanie Hunt as she learns about one of the country’s most notorious exports, cocaine, and the mass damage it’s caused to Colombian society. The gateway to Europe's drug trafficking problem La Linea is a Spanish coastal city built on drug trade. Smugglers and policemen often come from the same street. Off the Grid met people on both sides of the divide. #Lalinea #spain #drugtrafficking Funding aims to help stop gun smuggling: Ralph Goodale Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale and Border Security Minister Bill Blair announced Thursday federal funding aimed at tackling gun and gang violence. Goodale said stopping the flow of guns into Canada is important. Reporter - Canada: Why Many Aboriginals Grow into Crime Spurgeon Root is a pastor in Regina in western Canada. It is a city notorious for its Aboriginal gang culture. At night, they come knocking at his door: drug dealers, street fighters and muggers hoping to find a way out of their life of crime. Raptors' Kyle Lowry gives 'kudos' for van attack arrest Raptors guard Kyle Lowry says the arresting officer in Monday's Toronto van attack did an "amazing" job not using his firearm to take the suspect into custody. Alek Minassian was arrested after a brief sidewalk standoff. . Video shows police punch, mock bleeding suspect New police video shows Mesa, Arizona officers punch and mock a bleeding suspect during a violent arrest. It's the third video to surface showing Mesa officers using force that some call questionable. Police arrest 14 suspects and seize class A drugs during dawn raids This morning, police officers conducted dawn raids across London. The operation was intelligence-led and saw police smashing doors down. 14 suspects were arrested and class A drugs, including crack cocaine and heroine, were seized by the police. U.S.-Mexico border crossing closed, sparking chaos U.S. officials have closed traffic at the border south of San Diego on Sunday, prompting chaos and confusion among Central American migrants seeking asylum. Latina actresses encourage voters in Miami American Latina movie stars Zoe Saldana, Rosario Dawson and Eva Longoria hit the streets of Miami to encourage registered Latino voters to head out to the polls on Tuesday for the US midterm elections. Italian police seize around 270kg of heroin Italian police have uncovered 270kg of heroin which is their biggest haul in at least 20 years. They discovered the drugs after spotting suspicious containers in Genoa before tracking it to a destination in the Netherlands. Spain: A city and a drug smugglers' haven Only a few kilometers separate Morocco from the Spanish coast. Smugglers use the route daily to run several tons of narcotics into Europe. 75 percent of all hashish consumed in Europe comes through Morocco. Dark web drug dealers choose to ban fentanyl Drug dealers on the dark web have started to ban the synthetic opioid fentanyl because it is too dangerous to trade, the National Crime Agency says. #Darkweb #drugs #opioid #fentanyl #fatalities Costa Rica seizes two tons of cocaine at sea Law enforcement officials in Costa Rica have made one of the biggest drug confiscations at sea, recovering around 2,000 packets of cocaine.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.