Siyabonga Kalipa Western Cape MEC for Health Nomafrench Mbombo addressing young women from Women of Worth programme. PHOTO: siyabonga kalipa Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Western Cape MEC for Health Dr Nomafrench Mbombo joined young women in Gugulethu during their 16 Days of Activism empowerment session as part of the Women of Worth (WOW) programme. Sixteen Days of Activism is an international awareness-raising campaign for No Violence Against Women and Children. The campaign began in 1998 in South Africa as one of the intervention strategies towards creating a society free of violence. On Wednesday last week, young women were taught what abuse against women is and how to deal with the scourge. Xabiso Maqolo, programme facilitator, said the session was called “throwing the punches” and was meant to empower young women on how to deal with abuse and what to do when they are being abused. Siphosethu Mxwali (22) said the sessions they attend at WOW empower them on how to deal with issues affecting young women. “We also deal with gender based violence, which is what today was about, I now know what to do if I were to face abuse,” she said. She said she enjoyed every minute of the session as it dealt mainly with what a lot of women go through on a daily basis. Ntombikayise Ndlazi (24) from Philippi, said she also learnt how to deal with abuse and how to help others who are being abused. “Abuse does not have to happen to me in order for me to act, I can now help others who are being abused,” she said. Ndlazi encouraged other young women to join WOW because they will get help for a lot of things. Mbombo said they have invested in the empowerment of young women as a way of fighting the scourge of abuse. “We focus on women because they often fall victim to abuse. We are empowering them by working together as government, civil society and relevant organisations.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.