Sesona Ngqakamba Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A former scholar patrol guard who was accused of abusing young girls, aged between five and 13, at a Soweto primary school last year has been acquitted on all counts. 58-year-old Johannes Molefe was facing three counts of rape and 11 of sexual assault. Acting Judge Peet Johnson handed down judgment in the High court in Johannesburg sitting in Palm Ridge Magistrates Court. "I have considered the evidence of state and accused as a whole. Suspicion that someone has done something is not proved beyond a reasonable doubt. "The court is not satisfied that the state has proved its case," he said. Johnson questioned the police and the state's investigation. He viewed it as "unsatisfactory". The acting judge also questioned the credibility of several witnesses because of contradictions in their testimonies and statements. Johnson also said the court must mention that there were numerous errors made during the course of the trial EWN reported that various people, including some of the victims who were allegedly sexually abused, had testified over the past few weeks. ALSO READ: Soweto school guard accused of sexual assault hears girls are traumatised One child told the court that she had developed a bladder infection after she was raped, allegedly by the former school guard. Several witnesses also claimed that the school had asked them to keep quiet about the abuse. On Monday, IOL reported that Molefe's lawyer Lumka Qoqo had asked in her closing statements how it was possible that Molefe could have touched the children during school hours when there were other staff present. Qoqo said that all 13 complainants, except for one, had not remembered the dates of the alleged abuses. Qoqo said that most of the girls had contradicted themselves on the stand concerning the statements they had given to police last year, which, she said was a sign of coaching. READ MORE: Soweto school guard accused of sexual assault 'seemed like an angel'    WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. What are the most feared household crimes in South Africa? A recent survey revealed that not only did household crime go up by 5% from the previous year in South Arica, but that citizens also feel it's prevented them from daily tasks and activities, and even letting their children play outside. WATCH: Jason Rohde guilty of murder; bail denied (full stream) Jason Rohde has been found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.