Jenna Etheridge Shiven Gopi (supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Durban man is transforming old and broken toys into good-as-new treats so that every child experiences some joy over the festive season. Shiven Gopi, 31, recently shared an appeal on social media for donations of old toys to "Shiven's workshop". But he did not anticipate that he would receive such an overwhelming response. His "workshop" is actually just his dining room table, but it is packed to capacity and now looks like a toy store, he says as he laughs. Luckily, his wife shares his enthusiasm and has suggested eco-friendly ways to package the toys once they are fixed. Gopi, who has been in the electronics industry for more than a decade, believes most things can be repaired. "Electronics has always been a passion of mine... besides fixing TVs, I decided I want to give back to the community," he explains. "It is expensive to buy brand new toys and donate them. So I asked the community to come together and give me any toys that are repairable - a remote control car that doesn't work or even a teddy bear that is missing an eye." As an electronic quality engineer, he works hard during the day and often comes home late. This means that he only gets time to fix toys at night and over weekends. Once he reaches a personal deadline of the second week of December, he will don a Santa suit and "spread some Christmas joy". Gopi identified several children's homes, largely in rural homes, as recipients. But the project won't come to an end in the new year. He will keep fixing and donating toys that are sent to him in 2019. "There are some kids who don't even know what a toy is. This is to show that at the end of the day, a simple act can go a long way." - If you would like to donate a repairable toy, you can send a WhatsApp or text message (no calls please) to Shiven on 082 580 9552. WATCH: 'Ho, ho, whoooa!' - NSRI to the rescue as Santa slips and stumbles off boat A jolly Santa Claus managed to do what he does best at a beach in Cape Town this weekend, putting smiles on many children's faces in a rather unexpected fashion. Santa swims with mermaids and fish at the Seoul COEX aquarium Divers in Santa Clause and Rudolph the Reindeer costumes put on a Christmas performance at COEX Aquarium in Seoul, South Korea as they swim with fish and perform underwater tricks. Christmas sleigh restaurant rides into tropical Malaysia Jingling amid a Kuala Lumpur skyline, nearly a dozen people sit in a hanging sleigh-like restaurant as it is raised by a crane some 45 metres (147 feet) above the street below. Strapped into rollercoaster-like seats, the Santa in the Sky patrons d... Santas ride on the London Eye Father Christmas performers ride on the Coca Cola London Eye during a photo call for the Ministry of Fun Santa School. Cutest Santa ever! Cat is embarrassed of its Santa costume. Afghan 'Little Messi' forced to flee Murtaza Ahmadi moved the world with his love for footballer Lionel Messi in 2016. His dream of meeting the Argentinian came true, but now he is living a nightmare as one of thousands of Afghans displaced by war. Sea Life puts up its underwater Christmas tree Staff at Birmingham's National Sea Life Centre don scuba diving gear to go under water and put up their Christmas tree ready for the festive season. 'Santa' and his elf, curator Johnny Rudd, use oxygen tanks to dive down into the tropical ocean tu... City's Santa SUP raises money for charity About 100 people - and some pets - dressed in festive fancy dress for a trip through Cambridge. Welsh Santa lookalike creates incredible five foot Christmas tree A Santa Claus lookalike who is obsessed with Christmas has revealed how, no longer content with displaying his usual four fake trees, he has created the ultimate five feet festive fir. Argentinians protest against the G20 in Buenos Aires Protesters march through Buenos Aires against G20 leaders and the International Monetary Fund as world representatives meet in the crisis-hit capital. Hundreds in Argentina protest on eve of G20 summit Hundreds of people from social and political organizations mobilize in front of the Argentine congress in Buenos Aires against the G20, saying the summit "is not welcome." Argentina economic woes exacerbate life in Zavaleta shanty town The residents of Argentina's Zavaleta, a poor neighborhood in Buenos Aires crippled by drug gangs and addicts, were already struggling even before the recent economic crisis, but now the shanty town's 1,200 families face the added daily struggle o... O Vulcão de Fogo Videografia sobre o Vulcão de Fogo situado na linha de fogo. Kurt Russell shares that playing Santa 'is just like portraying Elvis' Kurt Russell has shared that getting into Santa Claus' suit was apparently a lot like playing Elvis Presley! Helicopter rescues people, dogs from wildfire Newly released video shows the dramatic moment firefighters rescued three people and two dogs as thick smoke and flames fast approached in Southern California. Northern California wildfire rescue operation This video was taken on November 9 as pilots David Nordquist and Joel Smith battled the Woolsey Fire that climbed over the Santa Monica Mountains towards Malibu. #California #wildfire #fire Third body found from Southern California fire Three people are now known dead from the Woolsey fire west of Los Angeles. On Wednesday, a burned body was removed from the rubble of an incinerated home in Agoura Hills. So. Calif. wildfire roars to life in wilderness Thousands returned to neighborhoods evacuated during Southern California's deadly wildfire but officials said the threat is far from over.  The huge blaze briefly gained renewed life Tuesday with a flare-up in the Santa Monica Mountains. People's Choice Awards: Rita Ora and Victoria Beckham walk the red carpet Mila Kunis, Victoria Beckham and Rita Ora were among the stars walking the red carpet at the People's Choice Awards. The show in Santa Monica, California, also drew Terry Crews, Jimmy Fallon and the Bella Twins. Osama Rashid, of Iraq and Portugal's Santa Clara says Xavi and Inesta are inspirations Xavi and (Andres) Iniesta are my inspirations said Osama Rashid, Iraq international and Santa Clara captain on Wednesday (7th November), when he spoke to SNTV. Rare 'Dumbo' octopus spotted off the coast of California Researchers discovered a 'Dumbo' octopus, or  Grimpoteuthis, when aboard the Nautilus Live vessel in Calfornia. The creature was spotted during the team's first dive of the expedition in the NOAA's Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary. Santa Fe beat Cali to reach Copa Sudamericana semi-finals Independiente Santa Fe beat compatriots Deportivo Cali, 2-1, on Tuesday (30th October) to reach the semi-finals of the Copa Sudamericana. Junior beat Defensa y Justicia 2-0 in the first leg of their Copa Sudamericana quarter-final Atletico Junior won the home leg of their quarter-final Copa Sudamericana match with Defensa y Justicia, 2-0, on Thursday (25th October). 'It can be hard work' training mental health advocate Fury, says Davison Ben Davison said on Thursday (25 October) in Santa Monica that "it can be hard work" training mental health advocate Tyson Fury, ahead of his highly anticipated WBC Heavyweight World Championship bout against Deontay Wilder on December 1st. Hyundai Motor posts big profit miss on U.S. recalls; shares tumble Hyundai Motor Co said third-quarter profit plunged by a shocking two-thirds on Thursday, hit by a $440 million one-off charge related to U.S. recalls and sending its shares tumbling. Santa Fe hold Deportivo Cali to 1-1 draw in Copa Sudamericana quarter-final first leg Deportivo Cali and Santa Fe drew 1-1 in the first leg of the Copa Sudamericana quarter-final on Tuesday (23rd October). Glenn Close to receive Maltin Modern Master Award Actress Glenn Close is due to be honoured with the Maltin Modern Master Award at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival next year for her longstanding contributions to the film industry. See the ancient fiery ball game that's fighting crime in Mexico A traditional Mexican ball game played with a ball on fire is helping young people stay away from crime and street violence, as shown in the video from Mexico City, Saturday. Morales marks return of democracy to Bolivia amidst 'dictator' cries Thousands of Bolivians turned out on Wednesday to mark the return of democracy to the South American country, with rival camps using the anniversary to cheer and jeer President Evo Morales. 'Frustrated & disappointed" Argentina after loss to title winning All Blacks New Zealand beat Argentina to win the 2018 Rugby Championship 35-17 in Buenos Aires, Argentina on Saturday (29th September). SCRIPTING INFORMATION Winger Rieko Ioane scored two tries as New Zealand rebounded from a shock loss to South Africa to be... Compelling: Hyundai Santa Fe Bigger, stronger, faster: The body-builder's motto also goes for Hyundai. When in was launched in 1991, it was received with a weak smile, now it's become an established brand. That especially goes for the Santa Fe, that's now in its fourth genera... Uber's strongest growth comes in depressed Argentina Uber's fastest-growing market in the world is now Argentina, company executives say, attributing the expansion to the nation's sudden economic unravelling, which has boosted unemployment and sliced the purchasing power of Argentines.  As Laura Fry... Argentine club Huracan take seven-year-old Candelaria Cabrera out of boys' team Seven-year-old Candelaria Cabrera was recently told by her local youth football league in Argentina that she can no longer play for the Huracan de Chabas boys football club next season because mixed gender football clubs are not allowed in Chabas ... The Woman Who Survived a 10,000 Foot Fall When a 17-year old girl celebrated Christmas by falling 10,000 feet from a plane she proved Santa might not need to be packing a parachute. Road-tripping Mozambique: From camping with wild elephants to watching the sun set over dhows The land of fresh seafood, sweet local rum, really wild animals and friendly people - Mozambique offers a quick escape to recharge your batteries while adventuring through gorgeous landscapes - Maputo Special Reserve; Santa Maria and Inhaca Island. Demonstrations as Argentina Senate rejects move to legalize abortion Argentine senators reject a bill to legalize abortion, sparking protests on the streets of Buenos Aires. Clashes in Argentina over abortion bill Supporters and opponents of a bill to expand abortion rights clashed in Buenos Aires. Christmas comes early for London department store On a hot summer's morning in London, Santa Claus arrives 144 days early wearing a studded leather jacket to open the new Christmas shop at department store Selfridges. Fire crews continue to battle deadly California wildfires Helicopter footage captures the extent of the California wildfires. This fire in Santa Clarita threatened many homes in the region. It is one of eight major wildfires currently being dealt with in the state. Blogger Steve Hanisch explores Alicante The Spanish port city of Alicante is famous for its historic old town district. Travel blogger Steve Hanisch visits the 13th century Castillo de Santa Barbara, a fortress that boasts spectacular views. Homes reduced to rubble in California wildfire The Holiday Fire in Southern California's Santa Barbara County continues to burn reducing homes to rubble. Millie Bobby Brown skips MTV Movie and TV Awards after splitting kneecap Millie Bobby Brown skipped the MTV Movie & TV Awards after painfully splitting her kneecap. MTV Movie & TV Awards: Kim Kardashian stars on the red carpet Kim Kardashian, Chris Pratt and Kirsten Bell were among the stars on the glamorous red carpet in Santa Monica for the MTV Movie & TV Awards. Argentina-Israel friendly cancelled after protests Argentina cancelled the World Cup friendly against Israel that was planned to take place in Jerusalem on June. The cancellation came after a Palestinian call for world-wide protests against Argentinian star Lionel Messi. Argentinean women chant for abortion rights Hundreds of women rallied in Buenos Aires on Thursday to protest in favor of the legalization of abortion in the historically Catholic country.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.