Jeanette Chabalala Shamila Batohi. (Photo by Gallo Images, Alaister Russell) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed Shamila Batohi as the new National Director of Public Prosecutions. Ramaphosa made the announcement at the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Tuesday afternoon. LIVE: Ramaphosa announces new NPA boss During her interview, Batohi described the office of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) as a "house on fire". WATCH: South Africa's Constitutional Court ruling on ousted prosecuting head explained The Constitutional Court found on Monday that the appointment of National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss Shaun Abrahams was unconstitutional and invalid. Here's what you need to know. Watch. She also described the kind of leader that she believed should head up the NPA. She told the panel that she believes that one of the measures of the NPA should be how much confidence the people of South Africa have in a national director. She also acknowledged that when one becomes a manager it is a "terrifying prospect" but being a manager meant that one needs to "inspire people". Batohi has been a senior legal adviser to the prosecutor at the International Criminal Court since 2009. She was the first woman to be appointed as a director of public prosecutions when she took up the job in 2009 in KwaZulu-Natal. She will now be the country's first female NPA boss. Batohi is also known for leading the prosecution of disgraced Proteas cricket captain Hansie Cronje at the King commission of inquiry. Ramaphosa announced she will take up the reigns in February 2019. Shortlist Tuesday's announcement follows the consideration of five nominees shortlisted by an advisory panel chaired by Energy Minister Jeff Radebe. The other nominees were advocates Siyabulela Mapoma, Simphiwe Mlotshwa, Rodney de Kock, and Andrea Johnson. They were selected from 11 candidates who were interviewed - with media present - at the Union Buildings between November 14 and November 16. President Cyril Ramaphosa was given 90 days from August 13 to appoint a new NDPP following the exit of then NDPP Shaun Abrahams. The Constitutional Court declared Abrahams' appointment unconstitutional. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Saving Human Lives One Poop at a Time Changing the world, one toilet at the time. #worldtoiletday #WTD French President meets South African President at G20 summit French President Emannuel Macron meets South African President Cyril Ramaphosa during G20 summit in Buenos Aires. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Kruger Gold As Buck Runs Into Lions We often see lions working hard for its next meal, but in a video shared by Latest Sightings, getting dinner couldn't be easier for a pride of lions that had a buck run right into them. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... WATCH: Marinda Steyn takes the stand in Krugersdorp murder trial WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State finished its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part2) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 4 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 3 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues her testimony | Part 2 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 1 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.
Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Lion calls squad to show hyenas who's the boss of the bush This lion's pride definitely had her back when she was cornered by a group of hyenas trying to steal her kill. It was captured on video in Kruger National Park by 19-year-old student Amber Soames and shared by Latest Sightings. Meet The Face Of Amarula In The Limpopo Bush You don't have to go to fancy golf resorts or city boutique hotels for a luxury long weekend tryst - and at the Amarula Lapa in Limpopo you can even taste the wild of Africa and feel like bush royalty. North, South Korea join hands to win UNESCO status for wrestling North and South Korea mark a new step in their reconciliation efforts as the United Nations culture organization UNESCO approves their joint bid for Korean wrestling to be recognised on the UN agency's Intangible Cultural Heritage list. WATCH: Looters target truck trapped by too low bridge The driver of this RTT Intelligent Logistics truck found himself stuck between a bridge he could not pass under and a group of waiting looters late last week. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. From bullied to beloved: Burkina Faso's strongest man Cheick Ahmed Al-Hassan Sanou, known as Iron Biby, is one of the strongest men in the world. Originally from Burkina Faso, he says he wants to inspire young people in his home country to follow their athletic dreams. U.S.-Mexico border crossing closed, sparking chaos U.S. officials have closed traffic at the border south of San Diego on Sunday, prompting chaos and confusion among Central American migrants seeking asylum. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. Time for France to give back looted African art, experts say The report calls on France to allow the return of thousands of African treasures and artworks, a radical policy shift that could put pressure on other former colonial powers. #africanart #lootedafricanart #france Reporter - The First Female Mayor of Tunis Souad Abderrahim has caused a sensation in the Arab world. She is the first woman ever to be elected as mayor of a capital city in the region. Abderrahim faces many challenges. Black Friday: retailers try to shrug off blues, online in the pink (Amazon workers see red) Retailers bet on a sales bonanza as Black Friday fever takes hold, with online stores reporting a strong performance.  But planned strike action among Amazon workers could mar the online giant's day.  And, as Laura Frykberg reports, UK retailers were Africa Weekly - a round up of news and features from Africa This week on Africa Weekly, take you to Burkina Faso where female prisoners have no other choice but to keep their infants alongside them in detention and we travel to Tunisia to the southern island of Djerba where the dead face discrimination wit... North and South Korea join roads after 14 years The two Koreas reconnected a road across the border for the first time in 14 years as part of an agreement to exhume remains of soldiers killed during the 1950 Korean War. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  