Kaveel Singh The man accused of raping his stepdaughter appears in court. (Mxolisi Mngadi, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A KwaZulu-Natal man accused of raping his 10-year-old stepdaughter 900 times, is to spend the festive season behind bars after the Verulam Magistrate's Court postponed his case for a month. The 43-year-old man, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the victim, was arrested on June 11. When he appeared in court on Thursday, Legal Aid representative Mondli Mthethwa, argued that the case was dragging on for too long. "He was arrested in early June and has been in custody quite some time. We do not want another postponement." However, despite Mthethwa's objections, the case was postponed to January 11 for further investigation, which included the gathering of witness statements. READ: Verulam man allegedly raped stepdaughter 900 times from 2013 to 2018, court hears The State is also expected to decide if the trial should be held in the regional court. It is alleged that the accused raped the child from 2013 to 2018. He has been charged with rape, sexual grooming of children and exposure or display of or causing exposure or display of child pornography or pornography to children. Additional charges include assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, compelling or causing children to witness sexual acts, and child abuse or deliberate neglect of a child. Verulam residents beat him severely after the rape allegations emerged. The child's mother died five years ago. ALSO READ: Crucial reports awaited in case of KZN father accused of raping stepdaughter 900 times WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. WATCH: Siam Lee's mother breaks down as details of her death heard in court Siam Lee's mother Carmen Nans Lee says she wasn't expecting to hear details of her child's murder on Wednesday. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.