Mxolisi Mngadi A warehouse on fire in Pinetown. (Supplied, Rescue Care) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A warehouse was on fire at New Germany Industrial Park in Pinetown, west of Durban, on Thursday, paramedics said. Rescue Care paramedics spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said Escom Road and Chelsea Avenue had been closed to traffic to allow emergency personnel and their vehicles to access the area. It was not yet known what caused the fire, Jamieson said. "At this stage, there are no injuries reported, however, Rescue Care paramedics were on standby with advanced life support, should anyone sustain any injuries," he said. WATCH: Aerial footage of St Francis Bay runaway fire He advised all motorists to avoid the area as more firefighters were on their way to assist. "The Durban fire department is working to tackle the blaze. Multiple fire tenders are already in attendance, but more are on their way," he said.   WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. WATCH: This Garden Route 'firenado' is actually a fire whirl "Firenados" are more correctly called fire whirls, explained South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae after a video capturing the phenomena made the rounds over the weekend. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Edenvale fire victims overwhelmed by donations after losing everything Rebecca Mtya and her mother recently lost everyting in a fire, but members of the Edenvale community have opened up their hearts and wallets in order to get them back on their feet again. WATCH: Farming community in George is a ghost town following a fire that claimed 8 lives The farming community of Farleigh in the Southern Cape is a ghost town following a fire that claimed eight lives on Tuesday. Losing everything is heartbreaking - Vrygrond resident The City of Cape Town is conducting assessments on the fire that ravaged through Vrygrond near Muizenberg in Cape Town on Thursday night.

According to the City, the fire started at about 17:30 and up to 120 shacks were destroyed. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. WATCH: More than 1 300 homeless after Khayelitsha blaze More than 1300 people have been left homeless after hundreds of shacks were destroyed in a blaze which broke out in Khayelitsha, the City of Cape Town said. WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire.mp4 WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.