Riaan Grobler The South African Police Service (SAPS) has approached Sasol to request access to the CCTV footage of several muggings at its Ormonde View franchise in Soweto on Monday morning. According to Sasol, the company was "shocked and appalled at the traumatic situation that unfolded at our Sasol Ormonde View franchise retail site" in the early hours of Monday morning. "Concertgoers leaving the FNB Stadium after an event convened at the Ormonde View site where several people fell victim to opportunistic preying by perpetrators. We deeply regret the ordeal that the concertgoers experienced at the retail site, which was occupied by extraordinarily large numbers of people," Sasol said in a statement. On Monday, News24 reported that people leaving the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 event were attacked by gangs of juveniles and stabbed and robbed of cellphones and handbags, according to countless social media posts. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. Witnesses said the attacks happened in the vicinity of the Sasol garage situated close to the FNB Stadium in Soweto. Global stars such as Ed Sheeran, Eddie Vedder, Beyoncé and Jay-Z performed at the event, hosted by Mandela 100 and the Motsepe Foundation. "We are cooperating with the authorities and relevant stakeholders, which include the South African Police Service [which has] approached the franchisee to investigate and requested access to the CCTV footage. "The safety, security and concern for our customers and personnel is paramount," Sasol said. Organisers 'deeply disturbed' Global Citizen and the House of Mandela said on Monday that they were "deeply disturbed" by the reports of criminal attacks on concertgoers as they exited the event venue on Sunday night. "The safety of our guests is always of paramount importance to us and we understand and strongly empathise with their hurt and anger," Andrew Kirk, global director of PR for Global Citizen, said in a statement. Gauteng Premier David Makhura on Monday also said he was "disturbed" by the attacks, and had sought a full report from law enforcement authorities. ALSO READ: Global Citizen attacks: JMPD 'doesn't have power' to obtain CCTV footage "Crime is an enemy of our people and should be fought with vigour and military precision. Criminals have become too emboldened. Citizens are really under attack. We need a popular front to combat crime in our beautiful province," Makhura said in a statement. Makhura is seeking a detailed report from the SAPS and Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD), saying that "police visibility [after] the festival was undeniably one of the key areas of concern as expressed by a number of people". "Public places or areas of leisure should never be a golden den for criminals. People should always feel safe and protected in such places. Our law enforcement agencies, especially the police, are expected to play their role and responsibility," Makhura said. Seven people have been arrested following the attacks.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Police crackdown on uninsured M25 drivers Ten police forces combined for Operation Tutelage. The operation saw uninsured drivers targeted, and arrests for other offences including drug-driving. WATCH: IPID probe case of police brutality after woman's arrest The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is investigating a case of police brutality after a Pretoria West woman was pulled by her hair and violently shoved into a police van. WATCH: Woman says police forced motorist to withdraw money at road block A video of an altercation between police officers and a woman at the Honeydew police station has gone viral. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. Northern California fire is state's deadliest ever The Northern California wildfire has  killed at least 42 people, making it the deadliest in state history. Marriott hacked, up to 500 million affected Marriott International said on Friday that hackers have accessed its Starwood Hotels brand's reservation database since 2014, potentially exposing personal information on about 500 million guests. T.J. Miller 'charged with false bomb report' Actor T.J. Miller has been arrested by federal law enforcement authorities after making a 911 call of a false bomb threat from a train. According to a press release, the actor made the call back in March. He apparently saw a female passenger hide ... WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. FBI agent's breakdance misfire Police in Denver are investigating the accidental shooting of a man at a bar after a break-dancing off-duty FBI agent's weapon discharged on the dance floor. Police raid Europe's biggest illegal turtle farm in Majorca Spanish police shut down what they believe to be Europe's biggest illegal turtle farm, selling endangered species worth up to 10,000 euros each, according to the European law enforcement agency. Around 1,100 turtles and 750 eggs were seized from t... Tribute at the Stade de France on 3-year anniversary of attacks Three years after the jihadist attacks of November 13, 2015, French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe, members of the government and elected officials pay tribute to the victims of the attack by the Stade de France. Murder probe launched after man found stabbed in west London A murder investigation has been launched after a man was found with multiple stab wounds in west London.

Scotland Yard said officers and paramedics were called to the scene on Cathcart Road, Kensington, at just after 10.20pm on Wednesday. Police probe protest targeting Tucker Carlson's D.C. home A group of around 20 protesters, accusing Fox's Tucker Carlson of "promoting hate" and "racism" targeted his Washington home on Wednesday night, causing his wife to lock herself in the pantry and call 911. Guesthouse where gunmen abducted Italian woman on Kenya coast Images of the guesthouse in a village in southeastern Kenya where an armed gang abducted an Italian woman on Tuesday evening. The gang shot and wounded five residents in the raid, police say. Acting AG Whitaker visits home state for speech Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker returned to his home state of Iowa Wednesday to speak at a conference on elder abuse and meet with prosecutors and state local law enforcers. Police office rescues bear from dumpster A bear cub has been reunited with its mother thanks to a police officer in Northern California who colleagues are calling a "bear whisperer." B.C. staffers on leave over ‘criminal investigation’: Official A special adviser to the Speaker of the British Columbia legislature says clerk Craig James and sergeant-at-arms Gary Lenz were placed on indefinite leave on Tuesday, over what he says is an ongoing criminal investigation. Search intensifies for missing Wisconsin teen The search has intensified for a 13-year-old Wisconsin girl who went missing after her parents were found dead in their home. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. Bodycam video of police clashing with protesters in Paris Paris police said 133 people have been injured and 412 have been arrested as protesters trashed the streets of the capital during France's worst urban riot in years.

Police body camera footage highlighted the violence of the anti-government prote... WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Gunmen kidnap Italian woman in Kenya An armed gang has abducted an Italian woman from a village in southeast Kenya, shooting and wounding five residents in the raid, police say. Thousands of white workers protest Sasol black scheme White employees of Sasol say the South African energy company is discriminating against them by offering a share scheme exclusively to black staff. Whitaker announces $56 million for vests, cameras Acting U.S. Attorney General Matthew Whitaker announced Wednesday that the Department of Justice would be funding 56 million dollars so law enforcement agencies across the country can purchase more bullet proof vests and body cameras. Police receive two new videos in St. Michael’s investigation Toronto police have expanded their investigation into alleged assaults at St. Michael’s private school after receiving two new videos. Police say the videos involve a threat and an alleged assault with a weapon. BrainChip to exhibit at International Police Chiefs conference 04 Oct 2018 - Neuromorphic computing company, BrainChip Holdings (ASX:BRN), today announced that it will be exhibiting BrainChip Studio and Accelerator at The International Association of Chiefs of Police conference in the US. Woman assaulted and robbed at cashpoint in Leytonstone Police have released this shocking CCTV footage in an attempt to trace a woman who punched, slapped and robbed a 40-year-old woman at a cashpoint in Leytonstone.

The victim was withdrawing money from a cashpoint, while a second woman in her late ... Monkey attack fail! Monkey attacking man in zoo Chicago police release bodycam video of shooting Chicago police on Sunday released body camera footage of officers shooting dead a black man as he reached for his concealed handgun, hoping to quell two days of violent and peaceful protests that had branded the incident a case of police brutality. Arkansas traffic-stop shootout caught by dashcam Dramatic dashcam video shows a sheriff’s deputy in a shootout following a traffic stop in Arkansas. About 40 shots were fired during the shootout Sunday. The suspect was later caught and faces attempted murder and other charges. Family of IS-inspired bombers target churches in Indonesia Three churches in Indonesia's second biggest city Surabaya are targeted in suicide bomb attacks, suspected to have been carried out by an Islamic State-inspired group. Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. Six boys arrested in St. Michael’s assault investigation Six teens have been arrested and charged after an alleged sexual assault at St. Michael’s private school in Toronto. Police say anyone in possession of the video of the alleged incident should delete it immediately. The Fear That Has 1,000 Eyes: Cities in the Age of Terrorism Each recent terrorist attack has led to an increase in security: new laws, surveillance of individuals, trade and financial transactions, more cameras, biometric scanning, ever-expanding security architecture. When will the next attack take place? Westminster attack: Pc Keith Palmer's death ruled as 'preventable' Chief Coroner Mark Lucraft QC finds shortcomings in security on the day of the Westminster terror attack which led to the death of five people including Pc Keith Palmer. 'Yellow vest' protests: Tensions flare in Paris Paris police use tear gas against 'yellow vest' protesters on the Champs Elysées, enforcing a perimeter around the Concorde and the Elysée Palace, as demonstrations turn violent. 'Yellow vest' protests: Tensions flare in Paris (2) Paris police use tear gas against 'yellow vest' protesters on the Champs Elysées, enforcing a perimeter around the Concorde and the Elysée Palace, as demonstrations turn violent. Online campaign for security guard killed by US police officer An online fundraiser has raised over $130,000 for Jemel Roberson, the black security guard who was shot dead by a US police officer. Roberson held down a gunman and waited for police to arrive.

Police shot Roberson upon arrival at the scene. He l... Two police officers killed after gunmen storm Karachi Chinese Consulate Two policemen are killed as gunmen storm the Chinese Consulate in Karachi. Authorities say the attackers opened fire at consulate guards before breaching the main gate. The three gunmen who stormed were then shot dead by police. Northern California wildfire death toll at 56 At least 56 people are now known dead in the massive Northern California wildfire. Authorities say 130 people are unaccounted for. Witness recounts California bar shooting Witness recounts California bar shooting during which a gunman killed 12 people, including a police officer. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. Police scape from death! Policeman dodging car Official: Avenatti in custody on domestic violence Official: Avenatti in custody on domestic violence Mayor of London says public trust in police is essential Mayor of London says public trust in police is essential to tackling crime Mayor of London says public trust in police is essential Mayor of London says public trust in police is essential to tackling crime 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  