Canny Maphanga A father and his five children were killed in a collision on the R61 road in Libode, Eastern Cape. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A pall of sadness has been cast over the village of Qhangku in the Eastern Cape, as it's emerged that eight children from the area had died in separate incidents on Monday. "Yes, they are all from the same village," Eastern Cape Department of Health spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo told News24 on Tuesday. The children died in two separate incidents. In the first, a taxi boss in Mthatha shot and killed three children - aged six, eight and nine - before turning the gun on himself. Police, who have opened an inquest following the shooting, are not sure what the motive behind the killing could be. "There was no suicide note found. We are still investigating why this happened," police spokesperson Captain Dineo Koena said. READ:  Taxi boss kills 3 children, turns gun on himself Later that on Monday evening, a father and his five children were killed in a collision on the R61 road in Libode, Eastern Cape. The family was travelling towards Mthatha, News24 earlier reported. "Eyewitnesses said that the Corolla was attempting to overtake another vehicle and hit a Quantum travelling in the oncoming lane. The father and his children perished instantly," ward councillor Phila Godongwama said on Monday evening. ALSO READ: Father and five kids killed in car crash Eastern Cape Premier Phumulo Masualle has sent his heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased and condemned the senseless killing of the children. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Ferrari accident on the N2 Cape Town.mp4 Rion from CF towing  was 1st person on  the scene said the driver lost control when he looked down and the next thing he hit the highway concrete on the N2 Airport turn off. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province. Global NCAP: Nissan NP300 Crash Test 2018 The NP300 'Hardbody' achieved a zero-star rating for its poor adult occupant protection mainly in the driver head and chest areas in the frontal crash test at 64km/h. Global NCAP: Kia Picanto Crash Test 2018 The Picanto achieved a three-star rating for adult occupant protection in the frontal crash test at 64km/h. The vehicle structure was rated as stable while the footwell area was rated as unstable. Global NCAP: Toyota Yaris Crash Test 2018 The Yaris achieved a three-star rating for adult occupant protection in the frontal crash test at 64km/h. The vehicle structure was rated as unstable and offered marginal to good general adult occupant protection. Global NCAP: Hyundai i20 Crash Test The i20 achieved a three star rating for adult occupant protection in the frontal crash test at 64km/h. The vehicle structure was rated as unstable as well as the footwell area. The protection levels ranged from marginal to good.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.