Correspondent Mandrax. (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 53-year-old man is expected to appear in court on Monday after allegedly running a drug laboratory from an apartment in Umhlanga Rocks, Durban. Mandrax and heroin with a street value of R1.5m was found on the premises. The arrest followed a raid on the premises on Friday night by various police units, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said in a statement. The man was apparently arrested after police followed up on information. He was then taken back to the flat, which was also searched. Zwane said the flat is believed to be used for the packaging and storage of drugs. On December 10, the Hawks arrested seven suspects on drug-related charges. News24 reported that the suspects, aged between 20 and 60, were arrested at a Tafelsig house in Cape Town. Dagga and mandrax tablets valued at over R500 000 were discovered. The drugs were found buried underground in a trunk in the parking area. More drugs and cash were found in a safe, concealed behind a painting on the wall.  WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. WATCH: 7-year-old caught on camera stealing cellphone A video of a young child stealing a cellphone from a hair salon in Chatsworth, near Durban has gone viral online. WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. WATCH: Durban metro police officer charges at motorist A video of an altercation between a Durban Metro police officer and a driver has gone viral on social media. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. What you should know about cruising with MSC Musica in South Africa Gabi Zietsman from Traveller24 visited the MSC Musica in Durban's port for the launch of the summer cruise season in South Africa, and picked up a few tips for first-time passengers. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH. Albie Morkel believes Durban Heat are the team to beat Durban Heat captain Albie Morkel says his side are raring to go ahead of the inaugural Mzansi Super League. WATCH: 'There's no outbreak of salmonella in KZN' – health department tries to quell fears There have been a number of laboratory-confirmed cases of salmonella in Durban but there is no "outbreak" of infections in the province, KwaZulu-Natal health authorities said on Monday. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: SAAF helps Netcare911 hone their helicopter rescue skills in Durban Netcare911 and the South African Air Force's (SAAF) 15 Squadron held their annual refresher training session in Durban last week. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking. WATCH: This is what Kessie Nair would say to President Ramaphosa's face, given the chance Former Durban councillor and convicted fraudster, Kessie Nair, told News24 if he had a chance to speak to President Cyril Ramaphosa face to face, he would say the following: ... WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. The South African sound taking over Europe Durban duo Distruction Boyz are at the forefront of gqom, a type of South African house music. Kyle Abbott excited to make SA return at Durban Heat Former Proteas bowler Kyle Abbott says he is excited to be back playing cricket in South Africa for the Durban Heat in the Mzansi Super League. Preview: 2018 Currie Cup final in numbers Here are some key numbers ahead of Saturday's Currie Cup final between Western Province and the Sharks at Newlands. WATCH: Mozambique spitting cobra keeps Durban neighbourhood on its toes A 1.4 meter Mozambique Spitting Cobra was captured outside a house in Verulam, Durban yesterday. 'I dream of being an astronaut' – Durban matriculant with 11 distinctions A Durban matriculant who achieved 11 distinctions in 2017's IEB examinations says she dreams of being an astronaut. 'Motivated' Province ready to turn it on against the Sharks Centre Ruhan Nel says that Western Province are motivated to perform at Newlands ahead of the Currie Cup final against the Sharks this weekend. WATCH: Grandma Louw in altercation outside court Arlene Louw, the grandmother of the kidnapped and murdered nine-year-old Miguel, confronts several people accused of posting lies on Facebook outside the Durban Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.