Vanessa Banton An extremely rare edition of one of the first Q'urans to be translated into English is currently available on an online auction site called JellyFish Tree. According to a tweet by JellyFish Tree, the auction is set to end on Wednesday. The reserve for the English version of the Muslim religious text is set at $800, which is about R12 000. There are currently no bids. We have the extremely rare First English translation of the Qur’an 1649This holy text is wrapped with adoration and respect. But its boards are worn, as they should be. Traces of its… https://t.co/I6mfL3p4Ax JellyFish Tree has listed the book as The Alcoran of Mahomet, Translated out of Arabique into French; by the Sieur Du Ryer, Lord of Malezair, and Resident for the King of France, at Alexandria. And Newly Englished,....... (The Koran, 1st English Edition, 1649). The Friel Copy. We have the extremely rare First English translation of the Qur’an 1649 This holy text is wrapped with adoration and respect. But its boards are worn, as they should be. Traces of its readers remain. We are unlikely to come across this edition of the sacred book ever again. It is listed on our current auction (that ends tomorrow) as Lot 198 This is rare, beautiful, and has been handled, shelved and treated with respect by JellyFishTree. We hope it will find its way into the hands of those who respect it #Quran #Koran #islam #islamic #religioustext #rarebook #onlineauction #bookauction #respect A post shared by  Jellyfishtree Online Auction (@jellyfishtree) on Dec 4, 2018 at 12:00am PST  In an Abdullah Yusuf Ali Memorial lecture delivered in Kuala Lumpur in December 14, 2009, MA Sherif described the book as the first English version to be inspired by the French translation by Andre du Ryer. It was published anonymously in London in 1647. It is believed that the author chose to remain unknown as the publication of the Q'uran at the time in England was regarded as blasphemous. Also read: Einstein's theory of happiness sells for $1.3m at auction The action house, in an Instragram post, described the book as having worn boards. It said it had been handled and shelved by JellyFish Tree with the utmost respect. "We are unlikely to come across this edition of the sacred book ever again. We hope it will find its way into the hands of those who respect it," the post read. Read more: World’s most expensive printed book breaks auction record 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  