Russel Molefe, Correspondent Stolen goods seized by police in Polokwane. (Supplied) (Russel Molefe) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Limpopo
police on Sunday intercepted a closed truck transporting a stolen luxury
vehicle, LED TVs and several other items in Polokwane, believed to be worth
millions of rand. A Zimbabwean and two Ugandan
nationals have been taken into police custody. The truck was impounded and is
being stored at the Seshego police compound outside Polokwane. Police spokesperson
Lieutenant-Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said: "We can confirm the incident;
we'll provide more details later." It is understood the truck was
travelling from Gauteng and was destined to cross the Beit Bridge border in
Musina. It was stopped by police just outside Polokwane, and upon inspection,
they found a stolen white Range Rover, several TVs and other goods. High alert During the 2017 festive season,
police also disrupted a criminal operation in which donkey carts were used to
transport stolen vehicles and goods across the Limpopo River into Zimbabwe. The incident comes at a time when
police and traffic officers in Limpopo are on high alert on the roads,
especially on the N1, since the start of the 2018 festive season on Friday. Late on Saturday, 16 motorists
were arrested for drinking and driving, including a 22-year-old man found with
the highest reading of 0.87mg/l. Meanwhile, the N1 south near
Kranskop has been opened after it was closed for several hours following an
incident in which a sedan collided head on with another vehicle and overturned.
No fatalities were reported.  NASCAR Welcome to the adrenaline-fuelled world of NASCAR and the people who keep the cars on the oval. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. PMI, Paris Motor Show and US jobs report dominate week ahead The week will see key PMI manufacturing numbers from euro zone, Japan and the US and the start of the Paris Motor Show, while non-farm payrolls will reveal the health of the world's largest economy. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Auto sales in the slow lane Tepid demand for passenger cars Protesters set cars on fire in Paris A car is set on fire on Saturday on Hoche avenue, close to Champs-Elysées avenue, as Paris was hit by violence in the latest demonstrations against President Emmanuel Macron. Lexus Owners Club Cape Town rally together for a special send off Laurika Walters needed a car for her farewell and the Lexus Owners Club Cape Town stepped up for the special event. Andorra hosts first ever electric vehicle snow race Electric vehicles are put to the test in this EV Snow Grand Prix, in an attempt to raise awareness for the capabilities, speed and acceleration of electric vehicles. Organisers hope that showing off the potential of electric vehicles will encourag... Peugeot 508 sedan The new mid-range French car combines strikingly elegant design with sportiness and high safety. Our test car is powered by a two-liter diesel engine, which of course meets the latest emissions standard. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Coup d'accélérateur pour la voiture électrique Concentration record en CO2, chaleurs extrêmes, recul des glaces: les derniers indicateurs du réchauffement montrent l'accélération d'un phénomène planétaire et disent l'urgence à agir, alors que s'ouvre dimanche la 24e conférence de l'ONU sur les... WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. China to halt added tariffs on U.S.-made cars China will temporarily suspend additional 25 percent tariffs on U.S.-made vehicles and auto parts starting in January. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Via is looking into developing its own vehicle Daniel Ramot (Via) says his company is looking into developing its own van to serve future cities #TCDisrupt Bye Bye Car Driverless cars will be how we move around in the future. In 10 years' time, Ford Motors' Bill Ford says his company will sell mobility, not cars. We ask the experts, including Tesla pioneer Elon Musk, what they think the future has in store for us. London mayor launches new electric car charging ports around the city Sadiq Khan has launched 51 new rapid charging points in London, which he hopes will help encourage people to get electric vehicles. They can charge vehicles like the new electric taxi up to full in just thirty minutes. China cuts duty on U.S. car imports Auto sales in slow lane, low demand and high rates dent autos. Best winter getaway cars for less than GBP10,000 If you're planning to hit the road for leisure in the coming months, it would be worth having a car that can face the conditions. Here are some sub-GBP10,000 used cars that are up to the task. Loading cars safely Forty percent of Germans vacation by car. But with all that luggage, it's important to know the safe way to load your vehicle. You can also save time and frustration by planning things right. U.S. plans to rewrite rules that impede self-driving cars The Trump administration is moving ahead with plans to revise safety rules that bar fully self-driving cars from the roads without equipment such as steering wheels, pedals and mirrors. Toyota, SoftBank team up as push to self-drive accelerates Toyota and SoftBank say they will team up to develop car services that rely on self-driving technology, such as hospital shuttles, as they envision a future in which fewer people drive their own vehicles. As David Pollard reports, the partnership ... Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Hate parking? This car shrinks itself to fit The latest entry into the market for tiny cars that can fit into tiny parking spaces may come from Israel, with a concept electric vehicle that can shrink its wheelbase to the size of a motorcycle. Matthew Larotonda reports Tesco, Volkswagen to develop UK electric vehicle charging network Britain's biggest retailer Tesco has announced a deal with German automaker Volkswagen to develop 2,400 charging bays at 600 Tesco stores across the UK over the next three year. Francis Maguire reports on an industry in the midst of an electric revol Car demand collapse outruns GM's moves General Motors' monumental announcement that it will close three car assembly plants in North America and slash its workforce will only partially close the gap between capacity and demand for the automaker's sedans. Burning rubber and trying to master the art of spinning Spinning has become a big part of the motorsport culture in SA. Ernest Page gets behind the wheel of a street built drift car and learns a bit more about what it represents. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: Behind the scenes at the De Hoek plaza The De Hoek Plaza located in Heidelburg, Gauteng, on a normal day in December 5, 2017 saw 715 motor vehicles pass the tolls at 3pm and saw 2,621 motor vehicles pass through its lanes on it busiest day December 22, 2017, during the same hour. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Trump says China to cut tariffs on U.S.-made autos after trade war truce China has agreed to "reduce and remove" tariffs below the 40 percent level that Beijing is currently charging on U.S.-made vehicles, U.S. President Donald Trump said, as a trade war truce between the two countries gathers pace, cheering markets.  As BMW presents new autonomous, electric car in Los Angeles German high-end carmaker BMW presents a new electric and autonomous car in Los Angeles ahead of the Auto Show, hoping that the model can take on Tesla in the electric car sector. BMW introduces wireless car charger BMW is introducing the first wireless car charger. It is available under its 'i' Division, which covers all its hybrid and electric vehicles. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. New petrol and diesel vehicles to be banned from 2040 in bid to tackle pollution New diesel and petrol cars and vans will be banned from 2040 as part of efforts to tackle air pollution, UK Environment Secretary Michael Gove has said. He also pledged to work with local authorities developing diesel scrappage schemes. Auto sales depict worrying trend Passenger vehicles sales down in Nov because of muted festive season, Inventory build-up has led to production cuts to correct inventories, says Vishnu Mathur, Director General, SIAM. Motorist storms runway of Lyon airport during intense police chase A 31-year old man rammed into a fence in Lyon international airport after entering the runway. Dozens of police and security officers on cars, motorcycles and even a helicopter took part in the operation. The offender left the car and attempted to...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.