Correspondent Burning cars at a plastics factory in Germiston.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Several employees of plastics bottle manufacturer Mpact had their cars set alight by unknown people at its plant in Wadeville on Monday, IOL reported. The factory itself reportedly also suffered damage. The company is currently embroiled in a wage dispute with workers affiliated with the National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa). General manager Kallie Albertse told IOL there were no major injuries and no material damage to the production plant and equipment. WATCH: Striking plastics workers burn cars and offices last week, causing R2m damage A video posted on Facebook by Caron Levin Meyerowitz shows firefighters attempting to put out several burning vehicles in the company’s staff parking lot. "We were attacked at Mpact Wadeville today," Meyerowitz wrote. "The attackers were not related to our staff that were recently on strike. We believe these were a group of criminals taking advantage of the recent strike and are attacking anywhere that is involved with plastics.  "I am alright, I was hit by a rock but it was very close to being a lot worse. "One other person sustained minor injuries but also managed to escape. "Each car had its windows broken and contents stolen before being torched. The few cars that were not torched were badly damaged. My car did not survive. Our security was not equipped to handle this type of attack. As far as I know, shots were fired by police which drove the attackers away." According to Meyerowitz, Mpact will have counselling on site for the next few days and are in the process of getting affected staff rental cars. Last week security guard Lesley Lekgalake Mphahlele died after he was doused with petrol and set alight by violent protesters at Makulu Plastics and Packaging in Kempton Park, the Citizen reported.  According to the paper, the Plastics Converters Association (PCASA) put the blame for the violence on Numsa due to a strike the union called for. Numsa reportedly said it could not be held responsible. The two-month-long strike in the plastic sector has seen many instances of violence and damage to property. READ: Workers kill business owner's pet parrot during plastics industry strike In November, striking workers, believed to be employed in the plastics industry, attacked Ampa Plastics Group in Elandsfontein, smashing windows, stealing computers and attacking the managing director, Trevor Zulberg, News24 reported. Zulberg said bricks were used to attack both him and his parrot. The parrot was killed. He added that the attackers – who he claimed were affiliated to Numsa - also tried to set the factory alight. However, they extinguished the flames.  "There must have been around a hundred guys. They came in and started destroying everything in their way, poured petrol in some parts of the factory and set it alight," he said. Zulberg said his company and employees whose vehicles were targeted, incurred damages amounting to hundreds of thousands of rands. Numsa has rejected the allegations levelled against its members. "Those who make such claims do so without any proof to back it up. We urge anyone claiming to have information on criminal activity to open a case at [the SA Police Service] because it is their job to investigate such incidents and to bring the alleged perpetrators to justice," Numsa's spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola said when approached for comment. Industrial areas that have been affected by the violence and intimidation during the strike include Isando, Spartan, Jet Park, Sebenza and Wadeville. In October, a factory in Ladybrand in the Free State, was burned down by striking workers, according to ANA.  WATCH: 30 cars destroyed and reception looted at Germiston factory On Tuesday, employees from several plastic companies protested and attacked the Gundle Plastic group in Germiston.
They allegedly barged through the gate and assaulted two workers and damaged 30 cars, of which three were set alight. WATCH: Residents loot shop opposite Dobsonville police station A video has surfaced showing a number of people looting a small spaza shop in Dobsonville over the weekend.

The incident which took place on Saturday, shows a group of people running from the store with a handful of items taken from inside. WATCH: Chaos ensues during police operation in Parow A video of a police operation escalating into violence in Parow, Cape Town on Saturday has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. WATCH: A day in the life of a route patroller and toll collector As the busy festive season looms, bringing with it what is expected to be a heavy flow of traffic on the N3, those tasked with keeping travellers safe are getting themselves ready. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. 'Our people shouldn't have to travel hours to work' - Ramaphosa launches Atlantis economic hub "Our people shouldn't have to travel for hours and hours to work." That was the message from President Cyril Ramaphosa at the launch of the Atlantis Special Economic Zone in Cape Town on Thursday. WATCH: Worker takes Eskom labour brokers to court Witness Chauke is not afraid to speak truth to power. He says it was for this reason that his contract was terminated. He was the chairman of his group of (NUMSA) members at Eskom before his contract was terminated. WATCH: Behind the scenes at the De Hoek plaza The De Hoek Plaza located in Heidelburg, Gauteng, on a normal day in December 5, 2017 saw 715 motor vehicles pass the tolls at 3pm and saw 2,621 motor vehicles pass through its lanes on it busiest day December 22, 2017, during the same hour. WATCH: Fireworks suspected as general dealer goes up in smoke in Pretoria A general dealer lost everything after his shop went up in flames on Tuesday afternoon just as the busy Christmas shopping period begins. WATCH: Cape Town bicycle shop looted by rowdy revellers Festivities in the Cape Town CBD turned to looting, with one group causing damages of nearly R170 000 in mere minutes.

Rook Cycles in Long Street has shared CCTV footage of the looting on their Facebook page.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.