Correspondent The Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) has said it doesn't have the power to obtain the CCTV footage from the Sasol garage near the FNB Stadium where many people say they were robbed after the Global Citizen Festival on Sunday, EWN reported. According to the news service, the JMPD doesn't have investigative powers and therefore can't request that footage. However, the South African Police Service (SAPS) can. On Monday, News24 reported that people leaving the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 event were attacked by gangs of juveniles and stabbed and robbed of cellphones and handbags, according to countless social media posts. According to witnesses, the attacks happened in the vicinity of the Sasol garage situated close to the FNB Stadium in Soweto, in the early hours of Monday morning. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. Global stars such as Ed Sheeran, Eddie Vedder, Beyoncé and Jay-Z performed at the event, hosted by Mandela 100 and the Motsepe Foundation. The JMPD to date arrested seven people allegedly linked to the muggings and attacks, News24 reported. 'It was chaos' Vanessa Perumal, music publicist and managing director at JT Communication Solutions, told News24 that she had attended countless concerts as part of her work and had never experienced anything like this before. "I can't tell you how shocking it was," Perumal said.   "We were walking with thousands of people past the buses towards the Sasol garage to get an Uber. Then we heard people screaming. It was the weirdest thing possible. Youngsters, boys, were running towards us and stealing phones and pulling bags off people. It was chaos, it was so unreal. How was this even possible?" Global Citizen and the House of Mandela said on Monday that they were "deeply disturbed" by the reports of criminal attacks on concertgoers as they exited the event venue on Sunday night. "The safety of our guests is always of paramount importance to us and we understand and strongly empathise with their hurt and anger," Andrew Kirk, global director of PR for Global Citizen, said in a statement. 'Citizens under attack' Gauteng Premier David Makhura on Monday also said he was "disturbed" by the attacks, and has sought a full report from law enforcement authorities. "Crime is an enemy of our people and should be fought with vigour and military precision. Criminals have become too emboldened. Citizens are really under attack. We need a popular front to combat crime in our beautiful province," Makhura said in a statement. Makhura is seeking a detailed report from the SAPS and JMPD, saying that "police visibility [after] the festival was undeniably one of the key areas of concern as expressed by a number of people". "Public places or areas of leisure should never be a golden den for criminals. People should always feel safe and protected in such places. Our law enforcement agencies, especially the police, are expected to play their role and responsibility," Makhura said. National SAPS spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo on Monday said: "We are only aware of one robbery, for which one suspect has been arrested. We have not had other cases reported to us yet."  Witness recounts California bar shooting Witness recounts California bar shooting during which a gunman killed 12 people, including a police officer. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. Police chief: 'I would call that torture' A California police chief says three of the 13 siblings were found shackled after one girl escaped. Chief Brown: Response saved lives Alexandria Police Chief Michael Brown says the rapid response of the authorities saved lives in Virginia. Toronto police boost night shift in plan to curb gun violence Toronto's mayor and police chief have announced a $15-million plan aimed at curbing gun violence, including adding 200 frontline officers to the night shift this summer. The move is in response to a recent string of shootings in the city..  . Toronto police chief: No 'magic pill' to address gun violence Toronto's police chief is calling on the public to assist with any information on Sunday's shooting that left three people dead and 13 others injured. Mark Saunders says it will take time to address gun violence in the city. Police scape from death! Policeman dodging car Official: Avenatti in custody on domestic violence Official: Avenatti in custody on domestic violence WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Police chief backs initial response to Novichok poisonings in Amesbury The Chief Constable of Wiltshire Police has defended his force's initial response to the latest Novichok poisoning.

During a press conference in Amesbury, Kier Pritchard was asked whether he could rule out further Novichok being found. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Guesthouse where gunmen abducted Italian woman on Kenya coast Images of the guesthouse in a village in southeastern Kenya where an armed gang abducted an Italian woman on Tuesday evening. The gang shot and wounded five residents in the raid, police say. Ed Sheeran and Beyonce tipped for Christmas No1 Ed Sheeran and Beyonce have been backed by Marvin Humes to claim this year's UK Christmas number one with 'Perfect'. Beyonce and Jay-Z's joint album completed hours before release Beyonce and Jay-Z's producer has revealed their joint album was still being made hours before it was released. Beyonce and Jay Z hire team of nannies Beyonce and Jay Z have hired a "team of nannies" for their three children as they prepare for their joint world tour. Beyonce and Jay Z release surprise joint album Beyonce and Jay Z have released a surprise joint album, 'Everything Is Love'. Police crackdown on uninsured M25 drivers Ten police forces combined for Operation Tutelage. The operation saw uninsured drivers targeted, and arrests for other offences including drug-driving. Beyonce and JAY-Z request gold cribs for twins to use on tour Beyonce and JAY-Z's second joint tour will see them travel the world with their three children this time, and they plan to do it in style. Jay-Z was uncomfortable with Beyonce's album Jay-Z has admitted he was "uncomfortable" listening to Beyonce's 'Lemonade' album, which detailed his infidelity. Beyonce and Jay-Z donating  $1.1 million for college scholarships Beyonce and Jay Z are teaming up to provide $1.1 million in scholarships to help "exceptional" high school students continue their education. Bodycam video of police clashing with protesters in Paris Paris police said 133 people have been injured and 412 have been arrested as protesters trashed the streets of the capital during France's worst urban riot in years.

Police body camera footage highlighted the violence of the anti-government prote... Jay Z and Beyonce renew wedding vows? Jay Z and Beyonce have dropped a huge hint they have renewed their wedding vows after airing footages of themselves appearing to do so when they kicked off their 'On The Run II Tour' at Cardiff's Principality Stadium on Wednesday night (06.06.18). WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Gunmen kidnap Italian woman in Kenya An armed gang has abducted an Italian woman from a village in southeast Kenya, shooting and wounding five residents in the raid, police say. Arkansas traffic-stop shootout caught by dashcam Dramatic dashcam video shows a sheriff’s deputy in a shootout following a traffic stop in Arkansas. About 40 shots were fired during the shootout Sunday. The suspect was later caught and faces attempted murder and other charges. Westminster attack: Pc Keith Palmer's death ruled as 'preventable' Chief Coroner Mark Lucraft QC finds shortcomings in security on the day of the Westminster terror attack which led to the death of five people including Pc Keith Palmer. Two police officers killed after gunmen storm Karachi Chinese Consulate Two policemen are killed as gunmen storm the Chinese Consulate in Karachi. Authorities say the attackers opened fire at consulate guards before breaching the main gate. The three gunmen who stormed were then shot dead by police. Mayor of London says public trust in police is essential Mayor of London says public trust in police is essential to tackling crime Thousands of white workers protest Sasol black scheme White employees of Sasol say the South African energy company is discriminating against them by offering a share scheme exclusively to black staff. Police receive two new videos in St. Michael’s investigation Toronto police have expanded their investigation into alleged assaults at St. Michael’s private school after receiving two new videos. Police say the videos involve a threat and an alleged assault with a weapon. Whitaker announces $56 million for vests, cameras Acting U.S. Attorney General Matthew Whitaker announced Wednesday that the Department of Justice would be funding 56 million dollars so law enforcement agencies across the country can purchase more bullet proof vests and body cameras. Woman assaulted and robbed at cashpoint in Leytonstone Police have released this shocking CCTV footage in an attempt to trace a woman who punched, slapped and robbed a 40-year-old woman at a cashpoint in Leytonstone.

The victim was withdrawing money from a cashpoint, while a second woman in her late ... Missing Interpol chief under investigation, China says China said on Sunday it was investigating Meng Hongwei for suspected wrongdoing after the head of the global law enforcement organisation Interpol and Chinese vice minister for security was reported missing in France. WATCH | JHB crime stats: Drunk driving remains the city's most frequently recorded offence Drunk driving remains the highest offence in Johannesburg, according to the metro police latest statistics. BrainChip to exhibit at International Police Chiefs conference 04 Oct 2018 - Neuromorphic computing company, BrainChip Holdings (ASX:BRN), today announced that it will be exhibiting BrainChip Studio and Accelerator at The International Association of Chiefs of Police conference in the US. Chicago police release bodycam video of shooting Chicago police on Sunday released body camera footage of officers shooting dead a black man as he reached for his concealed handgun, hoping to quell two days of violent and peaceful protests that had branded the incident a case of police brutality. Fredericton police chief says force is struggling to cope with loss Fredericton’s police chief says delivering news of fallen officers is the worst moment for any chief of police. Officers Const. Robb Costello and Const. Sara Burns have been identified as two of four victims in Friday’s shooting in Fredericton. Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. Six boys arrested in St. Michael’s assault investigation Six teens have been arrested and charged after an alleged sexual assault at St. Michael’s private school in Toronto. Police say anyone in possession of the video of the alleged incident should delete it immediately. Police chief urges ‘hope’ at funeral for Fredericton officers Several thousand mourners packed a Fredericton arena on Saturday for the regimental funeral for Constables Robb Costello and Sara Burns. The city’s police chief urged people to focus on “compassion” in the wake of last week’s deadly shooting. 'Yellow vest' protests: Tensions flare in Paris (2) Paris police use tear gas against 'yellow vest' protesters on the Champs Elysées, enforcing a perimeter around the Concorde and the Elysée Palace, as demonstrations turn violent. 'Yellow vest' protests: Tensions flare in Paris Paris police use tear gas against 'yellow vest' protesters on the Champs Elysées, enforcing a perimeter around the Concorde and the Elysée Palace, as demonstrations turn violent. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. Online campaign for security guard killed by US police officer An online fundraiser has raised over $130,000 for Jemel Roberson, the black security guard who was shot dead by a US police officer. Roberson held down a gunman and waited for police to arrive.

Police shot Roberson upon arrival at the scene. He l... 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  