Jeanette Chabalala and Kyle Cowan SABC (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three SABC board members have resigned amid allegations of political pressure being put on the board. News24 has seen the resignation letters of Krish Naidoo, deputy chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama and DA-nominee John Mattison. Naidoo confirmed to News24 that he resigned on Tuesday. "I wasn't planning on resigning until yesterday lunchtime." He said he had come to the realisation that there was no point in staying on. "As I said in my letter, the inability of some of the board members to understand the difference between corporate independence, accountability and political interference has led to a breakdown in the relationship with the minister. That was my turning point. "I would rather use my energy in saving the SABC than fighting government," he said. Noted resignations News24 reported earlier that the SABC, in a short statement, said it had "noted" reports that three members of its board had resigned and referred all queries to the Presidency. The broadcaster denied that its group chief executive Madoda Mxakwe had also resigned. The resignations follow a strained meeting between the board, newly-appointed Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams and her deputy, Pinky Kekana, last Thursday. READ: SABC board members throw in the towel in fresh battle with government The battle between the board and government over looming retrenchments at the public broadcaster came to a head during the meeting and another source close to the communications ministry told News24 the resignations were in protest against some of the board members' treatment of the minister at the sitting. A letter in which Ndabeni-Abrahams states her intention to stop engaging with the board over a dispute regarding planned retrenchments was leaked to the media over the weekend. Ndabeni-Abrahams said she had been forced to cut ties with the board after the meeting and would "report this impasse to the president, Parliament and all relevant stakeholders", City Press reported the letter as saying over the weekend. "The board made it clear at the meeting that, irrespective of the success of [a] government guarantee or bailout, they will still proceed with retrenchments. As the shareholder representative, we were left with no option but to desist from all engagements with the SABC board," she wrote. D-day The SABC embarked on a process to cut jobs by 980 staff and more than 1 200 freelancers in an effort to stem the financial crisis it finds itself in. The broadcaster needs at least R3bn to stave off a March 2019 D-day, when it will find itself unable to pay salaries or bills. Sources close to the board again confirmed City Press reports that the meeting between the minister and the board was highly charged, with Ndabeni-Abrahams seemingly arriving with the express intention of putting a stop to retrenchments. ALSO READ: SABC board buckling under ANC pressure - sources The SABC's current salary bill is pushing a projected R2.7bn for the 2018/2019 financial year, which equates to roughly 40% of its revenue. "We realised that the board was no longer acting in the interests of the company, the shareholder, and Parliament as the representative of [the] South African public to which the SABC board is accountable," said Ndabeni-Abrahams. Ndabeni-Abrahams added that the board had flatly refused to allow her time to familiarise herself with the turnaround strategy and retrenchment plans. This is at odds with another paragraph in the letter which states the board will "review the pace and quantum of the impact of the [retrenchments] should funding be found". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Market movement an over-reaction: SBI Chairman Rajnish Kumar Catch this exclusive interview of SBI Chairman, Rajnish Kumar discussing about Govt measures on macros and NPA resolution. Man City chairman expects champions to get even better under Pep Guardiola Manchester City chairman Khaldoon al Mubarak expects Pep Guardiola to oversee continual improvement in the runaway Premier League champions. Amber Rudd resigns as Home Secretary Amber Rudd has resigned as Home Secretary amid claims she misled Parliament over targets for removing illegal migrants. Nissan prepares to oust its chairman Nissan said it's recommending that the board fire its chairman, Carlos Ghosn, after authorities arrested him for alleged financial misconduct. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot. No Aadhaar needed for bank A/C Privacy is an important aspect in Aadhaar, providing Aadhaar for banking services should not be made mandatory said SBI Chairman, Rajnish Kumar. Will Zuckerberg stay on as Facebook chairman? Several public funds that hold shares in Facebook back a proposal to remove CEO Mark Zuckerberg as chairman, saying the social media giant mishandled several high-profile scandals. 8K miles accuses two brokers of illegally transferring promoter shares 8k miles down over 85% YTD, Suresh Venkatachari, Chairman & CEO of 8K Miles. Market movement an over-reaction; SBI Chairman, Rajnish Kumar Catch this exclusive interview of SBI Chairman, Rajnish Kumar discussing about Govt measures on macros and NPA resolution. Nissan's legendary boss is under arrest Renault-Nissan chief Carlos Ghosn has been arrested by Japanese authorities over alleged spending irregularities, while the Japanese auto giant says it is already moving to terminate his contract. OBR chairman responds to the Chancellor's Budget OBR chairman responds to the Chancellor's Budget HT&E appoints Hamish McLennan Chairman 30 Oct 2018 - Media company, HT&E (ASX:HT1) has today announced the appointment of Hamish McLennan as Chairman effective from today. Regis Resources announces changes to the board 17 Sep 2018 - Gold mining company, Regis Resources (ASX:RRL) has announced changes to the board. Puel: Leicester family to pay tribute in first home game since helicopter crash Leicester manager Claude Puel said it's been an emotional week for everyone at the club ahead of their home game with Burnley this weekend. Korean Air chief indicted for embezzlement Korean Air Lines Chairman Cho Yang-ho is indicted on charges including embezzlement and breach of trust, adding to a string of woes at the country's biggest airline group. Son of Leicester chairman lays wreath outside stadium Leicester vice-chairman Aiyawatt Srivaddhanaprabha, whose father Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha was killed in a helicopter crash on Saturday, is joined by other relatives as he lays a wreath for the Leicester City owner. U.S. stocks rally Wall Street rallied as investors bet on a moderation in the pace of interest rate hikes after comments from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. S&P rises to record high The benchmark S&P 500 index clinched its longest-ever bull market run on Friday, closing above its previous January high, as Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell affirmed the U.S. central bank's current pace of rate hikes. MP's react to the reshuffle: 'The president is not in charge of his own party' Former deputy minister of telecommunications and postal services Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams was appointed as minister of communications. Ramaphosa announced he would merge the telecommunications and communications departments and both departments. ''Will Call USFDA For Clearance Of Waluj Unit In The Next 1-Month'' Zytiga had sales worth $1.4 Bn in U.S. in the first 9 months of the year. Watch what Habil Khorakiwala, Chairman, Wockhardt had to say. Finance comm to probe IL&FS issue Have summoned CMD, office bearers of IL&FS on Oct 30 in Mumbai says Veerappa Moily, Chairman, Finance Committee. King River Copper (ASX:KRC) - vanadium and titanium explorer 25 Oct 2018 - King River Copper Limited (ASX:KRC) Non Executive Chairman, Anthony Barton discusses the company's focus on vanadium, titanium and fluorspar at the Speewah Dome in the Eastern Kimberly. 'I doubt Kazakh president will run again' Chairman of the Senate of Kazakhstan, Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, spoke to the BBC's Stephen Sackur. Leicester fans emotional after 'terrible' Helicopter crash incident Leicester City fans talked on Sunday (28th October) about club owner and chairman Vichai Srivaddhnaprabha, whose helicopter crashed outside the King Power Stadium on Saturday (27th October). WATCH: Wily thief nabs SABC camera equipment during #StateCaptureInquiry A wily thief on Monday allegedly stole some of the SABC's camera equipment at the #StateCaptureInquiry. She left the building with a camera bag slung over her shoulder and escaped in a taxi. CSA CEO on SABC's readiness to broadcast MSL Cricket South Africa CEO Thabang Moroe is eager to see how the national broadcaster, the SABC, will provide their coverage of the inaugural Mzansi Super League. Joint company secretary of Ramelius Resources resigns 04 Dec 2018 - The joint company secretary of Ramelius Resources (ASX:RMS) Dom Francese has resigned. GR Engineering Services director resigns 07 Nov 2018 - GR Engineering Services (ASX:GNG) announced that Terrence Strapp, the Director of the Company, has resigned. Fake news is 'crisis for democracy' The committee's chairman says it is hard to distinguish real and "sophisticated" fake stories. Bank of Queensland CEO and MD Jon Sutton resigns 05 Dec 2018 - Bank of Queensland (ASX:BOQ ) CEO and MD, Jon Sutton has resigned to focus on his long-term health following a heart operation earlier this year. Jo Johnson resigns as transport minister over Brexit Jo Johnson, brother of Boris Johnson, has resigned as transport minister over Theresa May's Brexit plan. Mugabe 'wasn't offered anything' to resign A resignation mediator says he can't confirm reports that Zimbabwe's ex-leader was given $10m (GBP7.5m). WATCH: Democratic Alliance councillor Brett Herron resigns DA City of Cape Town MMC for Transport and Housing Brett Herron has resigned with immediate effect. Herron said that the DA is ignoring its manifesto to provide affordable housing and integration. Crouch: “No regrets” about resignation Tracey Crouch says she has “no regrets” over resigning as Sports Minister WATCH: Ramaphosa makes Nene announcement President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed Tito Mboweni to the post of finance minister after accepting Nhlanhla Nene's resignation. Watch the full announcement here. Dominic Raab says he will not resign Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab says he is "absolutely not" resigning. Male-only choir 'absolutely not' sexist Male voice choir chairman says that hiring enough women to become a mixed group would be "difficult". Korean Air chairman's wife faces abuse allegations The wife of Korean Air Lines Chairman, Lee Myung-hee, arrived at a Seoul police station for questioning over assault and abuse allegations, just four years after her daughter was arrested for a 'nut rage' incident. 'Real Madrid can say no to USA game' La Liga chairman Tebas on game abroad La Liga chairman Javier Tebas spoke at World Football Summit 2018 on Monday (24th September).  He took the opportunity to defend his aim for the Spanish teams to play a fixture in the USA - a move that Luis Rubiales, President of the Spanish Feder... "Rates 'Just Below' neutral range, no present policy path" U.S. Fed Chairman Paul Kitney said that financial stability is more integral now for monetary policy. Boris Johnson resigns as Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has resigned as Foreign Secretary, Downing Street said. It confirmed the Prime Minister accepted the resignation of Mr Johnson, and his replacement will be announced shortly. Company secretary Rural Funds Management resigns 31 Aug 2018 - Rural Funds Management (ASX:RRF) has announced Angela Lemmon has resigned from her role as company secretary. Jeff Sessions resigns as US attorney general 'at Donald Trump's request' US attorney general Jeff Sessions has resigned as the country's chief law enforcement officer. Mr Sessions announced his resignation in a letter to President Donald Trump and said it came at "your request". Ford on Hydro One CEO retiring, board resigning: 'They're done' Ontario Premier Doug Ford says the immediate retirement of Hydro One's CEO and the resignation of its board shows the province is turning a "new corner." The moves come under a deal between the utility and the new Tory government.. . Dominic Raab resigns: Cabinet departures since 2017 general election With Dominic Raab resigning as Brexit Secretary, we take a look at who else has left Theresa May's Cabinet since its formation after the 2017 general election. Jeremy Corbyn calls for Amber Rudd's resignation Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn calls for Home Secretary Amber Rudd to take responsibility and resign over the Windrush scandal. Claude Puel: We honoured the memory of our chairman with a win Leicester manager Claude Puel said the whole 'family' of Leicester players and staff came together to honour the memory of their club's late chairman Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha on Saturday. BHP sees two company secretaries resign 13 Sep 2018 - BHP Billiton (ASX:BHP) has lost two of its company secretaries effective from today. Frank Field says he will employ "the best legal minds" to dispute Labour membership rules Frank Field has said he will employ "the best legal minds" to dispute Labour rules which say he cannot return to the party after resigning the whip. Market Volatility Will Cool-Off Soon: SBI Chairman Rajnish Kumar Catch this exclusive interview of SBI Chairman, Rajnish Kumar discussing about Govt measures on macros and NPA resolution. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  