Jenni Evans One of the Western Cape SAHRC's commissioners Chris Nissen  (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Western Cape SA Human Rights Commissioner Chris Nissen's greatest wish for South Africa for 2019 is that everyone enjoys respect and human dignity. "We are like a see-saw. Today we are high. Tomorrow we are very low," he said in a rare break from crossing the province to investigate complaints. "South Africans must just respect each other," he implores. This advice applies to everybody - from those who make derogatory remarks at a braai, to the government official who makes people wait three months and demands endless emails just to fix a water problem. For the commissioner and his small team of legal advisors, administrators and people who help record written complaints, 2018 was a year of rushing. They received 200 complaints about access to water alone and went to at least 50 different protests. "If I get a call at 22:00 at night, I must go," he says. "One must never underestimate the validity or legitimacy of a protest." He says that although 2018 could be seen as a year of "frustration and anger", through the human rights prism, it was also a year of "wins". One of these "wins" was to hear that the Bo-Kaap in Cape Town might be declared a heritage zone after concerns raised by residents over construction there. READ: SAHRC conducts court-ordered Bo-Kaap visit following protests over developers Another "win" is the markedly changing attitudes of some municipal managers who have stopped being annoyed and frightened by the swells of protesters outside their offices. They are now sitting down with protesters to talk about solutions. "They (municipal managers) are not scared to deal with issues," Nissen said of the changing attitudes of local authorities. "They say: 'I have to cut down to do this. Must I build a hall or must I build the houses?'" But there are still councillors, local government officials and ward committees who are either isolated from their own communities, or who are dysfunctional. Another "win" was the introduction of the SA Police Service's Anti-Gang Unit, which many in the province have been begging for. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation Other victories include getting businesses and schools in the Helderberg region to continue renaming premises from the current "Hottentots Holland", a moniker considered highly offensive. The commission is currently also working on getting SA National Parks to have the name of that entire Hottentots Holland mountain range officially changed. This was also the year the Equality Court found a pastor, Oscar Bougardt, in violation of an agreement with the commission to not make any derogatory remarks about LGBTQI people. Nissen said the commission planned to do more work in 2019 on the rights of people who identified as LGBTQI. The commission also helped facilitate South Africa's participation in the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. This protocol, when applied, will inform the rights and responsibilities regarding anybody who is in any form of custody - whether it be a police cell or a mental health institution. The Constitutional Court has also asked the commission to monitor places where foreign nationals are held in custody in South Africa, and this protocol will become helpful there too. He also hails as a "win" the SA Police Service's changed attitude, saying they were more willing to facilitate communication during community protests.Visits by Police Minister Bheki Cele this year to angered communities during the #shutdown protests is an example of this improved response time to grievances over crime.He reserves a special mention for what he calls the "Heilbron Method". This is a tribute to the Overstrand Cluster Commander Brigadier Donovan Heilbron's "talk first" approach whenever a protest flares up. "The poor know you can't do magic. But I hear them say: 'At least listen to us'," he said. He also commends the mayor of Cape Town Dan Plato and Premier Helen Zille for always being "a phone call away" when there are problems the commission needs assistance with. Although 2019 will kick off with checks on schools to make sure children get their places at a desk, it will also be a time of preparing for the elections, expected in May. "Many promises will be made," said Nissen. "But the most important thing is that even if we disagree with one another, we need to respect each other's position and we must defend each other's right to disagree and be different from us." It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Protesting Queenstown farmers use their cattle to block the roads Farmers from Queenstown, now called Komani in the Eastern Cape took the streets on Wednesday, demanding that municipality provide them with more land for grazing. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. The Voice SA coaches have a special Christmas message The Voice SA coaches have a special Christmas message WATCH: 7-year-old caught on camera stealing cellphone A video of a young child stealing a cellphone from a hair salon in Chatsworth, near Durban has gone viral online. PODCAST: A look at what made headlines in 2018 AUDIO - As 2018 draws to an end, it would be remiss if we didn't reflect on this year's top stories. 

The News24 editorial team joined senior politics reporter Tshidi Madia to discuss the stories, people and scandals that dominated the headlines. WATCH: R 58K donation helps 69-year-old granny build her dream home A 69-year-old grandmother from Willowfountain in Pietermaritzburg will see her longstanding dream of rebuilding her home come true, after her employers crowdsourced almost R60 000 towards renovations. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. WATCH: Police use stun grenades to disperse picketing MyCiti protesters Police have fired stun grenades at MyCiti bus drivers on strike in the Cape Town CBD. WATCH: 'That children are being trained to do this is horrible' - Spur handbag theft victim A "family" of thieves seemingly worked together to steal an unsuspecting woman's handbag from a restaurant over the weekend. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.