Mandy Wiener Outside the Hawks building. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Hawks in Gauteng have arrested a man who they describe as one of the biggest drug dealers in Johannesburg. The man, whose name is known to News24, is expected to appear in court on Friday and can only be named then. Hawks sources say he is believed to be the primary mandrax dealer in the province. He was arrested on corruption charges, along with two Hawks officers. ALSO READ: Cele vows to find, shut down more drug 'factories' following major bust The Nigerian national was allegedly bribing the Hawks officers to influence cases involving him. Several of his vehicles had been seized allegedly containing drugs. There is a larger police investigation into the individual's drug operations and networks. "An intelligence driven investigation by the Hawks' serious organised crime [unit] in Gauteng has led to the arrest of two Hawks officers and an alleged drug dealer early today," said Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi. "It is alleged that the alleged drug dealer conspired with the two senior officers based in Gauteng to bribe an investigating officer assigned to a separate criminal matter where vehicles and drugs were seized. "Further investigations revealed that on numerous occasions the two officers allegedly met with the said investigating officer and handed various sums of money to him to secure the release of the said vehicles. The officers were arrested today after a warrant for their arrest was executed."   Demi Lovato 'knew the risks' of drugs she took Demi Lovato's alleged drug dealer claims she "knew the risks" of taking drugs and says he cares about her "very much". WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: Langa residents loot hijacked, abandoned truck Residents in Langa took advantage of a hijacked truck in Cape Town on Wednesday after stealing goods from the abandoned vehicle. Getting back to hockey has been helpful, says SJHL player The Saskatchewan Junior Hockey League's Nipawin Hawks and Estevan Bruins honoured the Humboldt Broncos on Saturday before the first game of the league championship. The Hawks' captain said it was "therapeutic" to get back on the ice. Sir Vince Cable: Interpol could become 'a branch of the Russian mafia' Sir Vince Cable questions minister Harriet Baldwin on what the UK Government is doing to prevent the election of Russian Alexander Prokopchuk as president of Interpol. WATCH: Golf ball-sized hail stones turn parts of Gauteng an icy white Severe hailstorms turned parts of Gauteng an icy white on Thursday. Nielsen: criminals and gang members in caravan Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen visited a San Diego beach on Tuesday, examining up close the newly installed razor wire on the US-Mexico border fence. She said the Central American caravan includes criminals and gang members. Confidence in US judiciary 'diminishing' Senior US District Judge Mark L Wolf on the public perception of the US federal judiciary. Former Catalan minister has arrest warrant withdrawn A former Catalan politician who has been fighting extradition to Spain has had her international arrest warrant formally withdrawn. Last-minute voting challenges ruffle Georgia race In the race to become Georgia's next governor, it's claims of voter suppression vs. claims of voter fraud. Jonah Green is on the story. 'Assange won't leave embassy any time soon' Peter Tatchell says Julian Assange will stay at Ecuador's embassy despite Sweden revoking an arrest warrant. Prince Charles and Prince Harry host youth crime debate Prince Charles and Prince Harry host a debate on youth crime. Cardi B theatened with arrest after missing arraignment Cardi B is reportedly facing a potential bench warrant after failing to show up for court earlier this week. Director's fraud trial draws protesters Protesters in Russia believe the charges against director Kirill Serebrennikov are political. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. Drug trafficking syndicate raided by police An Australian-led police operation is said to have smashed an international drugs syndicate WATCH: Rubber bullets and teargas answer Westbury residents' pleas in fight against drugs, gun viole While drug dealing and the accompanying gun violence have been on the increase in Westbury, residents say their calls for a safer, drug-free community seem to go unheard as police allegedly fail to respond to complaints. Reporter - Canada: Why Many Aboriginals Grow into Crime Spurgeon Root is a pastor in Regina in western Canada. It is a city notorious for its Aboriginal gang culture. At night, they come knocking at his door: drug dealers, street fighters and muggers hoping to find a way out of their life of crime. Philippines president jokes about smoking marijuana Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte, whose controversial war on drugs has killed nearly 5,000 suspected drug dealers and users since taking office in 2016, says he smokes marijuana to stay awake at international meetings. #Duterte #drugwar #mari... Dark web drug dealers choose to ban fentanyl Drug dealers on the dark web have started to ban the synthetic opioid fentanyl because it is too dangerous to trade, the National Crime Agency says. #Darkweb #drugs #opioid #fentanyl #fatalities Ruthless gangs draw El Salvador's invisible borders Violent gangs like the Mara Salvatrucha or the Barrio 18, terrorize neighborhoods in El Salvador, forcing residents into exile. According to official estimates, there are some 70,000 gang members in El Salvador The gateway to Europe's drug trafficking problem La Linea is a Spanish coastal city built on drug trade. Smugglers and policemen often come from the same street. Off the Grid met people on both sides of the divide. #Lalinea #spain #drugtrafficking Indonesia frees Bali Nine drug smuggler Lawrence from prison The first member of the "Bali Nine" heroin-trafficking gang is released from prison after serving 13 years in Indonesia for carrying 2.6 kilograms (5.7 pounds) of heroin strapped to her body as she tried to fly out of the international airport on ... Funding aims to help stop gun smuggling: Ralph Goodale Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale and Border Security Minister Bill Blair announced Thursday federal funding aimed at tackling gun and gang violence. Goodale said stopping the flow of guns into Canada is important. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. Berlin: A park keeper and the dealers There's a lot of drug dealing in Berlin's Gorlitzer Park -- and there are often incidents of violence. The local government can't seem to get the problem under control, so park manager Cengiz Demirci has taken on the task himself. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Argentines protest over bribery scandal Tens of thousands of Argentines gathered before the Congress, demanding the Senate strip ex-President Cristina Fernandez, of her immunity. Tear gas and arrests as Paris hit by new yellow vest protests Police fired tear gas and arrested hundreds of people in Paris as the French capital went on lockdown for the latest yellow vest protests against President Emmanuel Macron. #Yellowvest #Paris #Protests WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Police find on-the-run paedophile hiding behind false wall A paedophile on the run from police for five years was finally arrested after he was found hiding behind a false wall.

Brian Ward, 62, had evaded authorities since 2013 after he fled a trial for indecently assaulting a young girl. Arrests made as shop is looted in Paris protests Violent clashes continued on the Place de la Republique in Paris, where protesters tried to loot a sports shop and police made several arrests. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? China says ex-Interpol chief faces bribery probe back home China said on Monday it was investigating former Interpol chief Meng Hongwei for bribery and other violations, days after French authorities said the Chinese official had been reported missing by his wife after traveling from France to his home co... Woman assaulted and robbed at cashpoint in Leytonstone Police have released this shocking CCTV footage in an attempt to trace a woman who punched, slapped and robbed a 40-year-old woman at a cashpoint in Leytonstone.

The victim was withdrawing money from a cashpoint, while a second woman in her late ... Bodycam video of police clashing with protesters in Paris Paris police said 133 people have been injured and 412 have been arrested as protesters trashed the streets of the capital during France's worst urban riot in years.

Police body camera footage highlighted the violence of the anti-government prote... Spain: A city and a drug smugglers' haven Only a few kilometers separate Morocco from the Spanish coast. Smugglers use the route daily to run several tons of narcotics into Europe. 75 percent of all hashish consumed in Europe comes through Morocco. WATCH: New footage has emerged following clash by 2 rival church groups in Joburg New video footage has emerged of the widely reported clash outside the International Pentecost Holiness Church in Zuurbekom, west of Johannesburg last Thursday. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. Man facing drugs charges leaps from courthouse balcony A man facing drugs charges leaps from a Utah courthouse balcony in an escape bid on April 30. Christopher Clay Rudd, 35, had been arrested on drug allegations. Police said it is unclear whether Rudd was trying to injure himself.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.