Alex Mitchley WATCH: Massive storm batters Sun City Resort The Sun City Resort has been affected by a massive storm and flash floods, leading to visitors being evacuated and other guests asked to return home, Sun International said on Saturday. Flooding in Sun City. (Image via @HoosainAzhar on Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Sun City Resort is open for business after a devastating storm wreaked havoc, causing flooding and damage to the popular holiday destination over the weekend. A hail storm, which also lead to subsequent flash floods, hit the North West region of the Pilanesberg and surrounding areas around 16:30 on Saturday. It resulted in substantial damages to hotel rooms, vehicles and other buildings at Sun City. News24 previously reported that day visitors were immediately evacuated and bused away from badly affected areas. On Monday, Raul de Lima, group executive for Sun City, said the resort was reopened following mop-up operations. READ: Sun City storm: It felt like a rolling ball of bad weather, says Capetonian about flash floods "Over the last 48 hours we've managed to deal with the mop-up operation to get the resort back into a decent shape for visitation by both hotel guests and day visitors," said de Lima. "The Valley of the Waves and Sun Central restaurants, including the retail mode, is open for business and most of the facilities are up and running again." De Lima added that there are still some challenges that the resort faces following the storm, such as a shortage of hotel room inventory, particularly at the Soho Hotel at the casino where 100 rooms are out of commission. A further 40 rooms are out of commission at The Cascades and ten at The Palace, De Lima said. PICS: Massive storm batters Sun City Resort, guests evacuated, told to go home "For the Vacation Club and The Cabanas we've managed to put rooms back into inventory and will be able to accommodate guests who have bookings, and who are arriving from today." "For the rest, the resort is back in fairly good shape." De Lima also commended the Sun City staff, service providers and some of their contractors for the effort that went into putting the resort back into a condition which is acceptable to visitors. "For that we are very thankful. We would also like to thank all our guests and customers who have been understanding and sympathetic to what took place, given that it was a freak storm. For their indulgence and certainly their patience, we are very grateful and would like to thank them very much." De Lima said that while all systems are a go and that day visitors are encouraged to come to the resort, from a hotel perspective, all guests should still phone the resort to confirm that their booking is intact.  WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: This Garden Route 'firenado' is actually a fire whirl "Firenados" are more correctly called fire whirls, explained South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae after a video capturing the phenomena made the rounds over the weekend. Violent storms pound Italy Several regions are on high alert as fierce winds and rain lash Italy, leaving at least nine dead. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. The resort town flattened by Hurricane Michael Hurricane Michael has moved on from Florida and is now a tropical storm soaking Georgia and the Carolinas. But it's left in its wake unrecognizable destruction. Jonah Green has more. US Air Force plane passes through eye of Hurricane Michael A US Air Force plane passes through eye of Hurricane Michael. The Category 4 storm hit Florida with 155 mph winds before moving inland. Record-breaking hurricane Michael causes severe damage in Florida Hurricane Michael is the fiercest storm to hit Florida in 80 years and the third most powerful ever to strike the U.S. Florida braces for category 4 Hurricane Michael Hurricane Michael grew into a potentially deadly Category 4 storm on Wednesday (October 10) before it was due to smash into Florida's Gulf shore with towering waves and roof-shredding winds. Gulf of Mexico oil platforms evacuated Energy companies halted nearly a fifth of Gulf of Mexico oil production as Hurricane Michael intensifies, but Mizuho's Bob Yawger says it won't hurt their business much. Doug Ford says the tornadoes’ devastation is ‘heartbreaking’ Ontario Premier Doug Ford was in the Ottawa area community of Dunrobin meeting people displaced by Friday’s tornadoes. Ford pledged the province's full support to residents recovering from the storm. Dunrobin, Ont., community will band together says resident Dunrobin, Ontario, resident Alex Carlson says the damage left by Friday’s tornado is “catastrophic” but the community will come together.  The storm tore roofs off of homes, overturned cars and felled power lines in the area. Florence downgraded as death toll climbs Florence was downgraded to tropical storm from a hurricane Friday as it thrashed and lingered over the Carolina coast, killing residents in its wake. Conway G. Why do storms have names? The Met Office and Met Eireann have announced the storm names for 2018-19. But why do we name them? Florence strengthens, over 1.5 million ordered to flee Hurricane Florence, a Category 4 storm and the most powerful to menace the Carolinas in nearly three decades, has caused evacuation orders for more than 1.5 million people along the U.S. Atlantic coast. Footage of Tropical Storm Gordon from space NASA Space Station captures views of Tropical Storm Gordon from 255 miles up as the storm churns over the northern Gulf of Mexico. Tropical storm Gordon makes U.S. landfall Tropical Storm Gordon made landfall on Tuesday just west of the Alabama-Mississippi border, lashing the U.S. Gulf Coast with high winds and heavy rain, according to the Miami-based U.S. National Hurricane Center. Man abandons sinking truck amid US storms At least 13 people have died as flooding and tornadoes sweep parts of the south and midwest.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.