Mxolisi Mngadi Ace Magashule after the result announcement at the ANC 54th national conference . Picture: Elizabeth Sejake Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Limpopo
– President Jacob Zuma will deliver the State of the Nation Address (SONA), ANC
secretary general Ace Magashule said on Saturday. Magashule was part of the newly
elected ANC top six that met with traditional leaders, including the king of
the BaVenda Toni Mphephu Ramabulana, in Limpopo on Saturday. Replying to a question by eNCA reporter Samkelo Maseko, Magashule said:
"President Zuma will deliver the State of the Nation Address (SONA). The
answer is yes." In a combined statement on
Friday, opposition parties said if Zuma delivers the SONA "that will
confirm the ANC's inability, or unwillingness, to do what is right for South
Africa". Also read: Zuma must exit - Mashatile "The acute refusal of the
ANC to remove President Zuma from office is well documented and the governing
party's resistance clearly indicates that it is not committed to the rule of
law and the ethics of good governance," read the statement, which was
delivered by UDM leader Bantu Holomisa. At Friday's press briefing in
Johannesburg, leaders of the EFF, IFP, UDM and ACDP agreed to send
an official letter to Parliament's presiding officers, National Assembly
speaker Baleka Mbete and National Council of Provinces chairperson Thandi
Modise, to express their concerns in allowing the proposed SONA to go ahead
on Thursday. DA leader Mmusi Maimane and FF
Plus leader Pieter Groenewald could not attend the meeting but, according to
Holomisa, the opposition was united "in assuring South Africans that it
would continue to energetically fight for the eradication of corruption and capture
and for the establishment of the ethics of good governance". Also read: Opposition parties wants 'anyone but Zuma' to deliver SONA 2018 On Thursday, Mbete
and Modise were adamant that the SONA would go ahead as planned. On Friday, Mbete
announced in a statement that the motion of no confidence in Zuma, called for
by the Economic Freedom Fighters, would be debated on February 22. Meanwhile, on
Saturday afternoon, February 3, ANC NEC member Bheki Cele tore into Magashule
for the comments he made during an ANC Youth League rally in Pietermaritzburg a
week prior. At the rally, Magashule said he
had accepted that "the law must take its course" in relation to the
controversy surrounding a dairy farm project in the Free State, But said he
believes that this should not be used to scare him out of his new position in
the party. Magashule's role as Free State
premier has been questioned after the Hawks raided his office, as well as the
provincial office of the department of agriculture on January 26. A week earlier, News24 revealed that the Krynaauws Lust farm, near Vrede, was
placed under the curatorship of NPA's Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU). The Free State agricultural department – under then MEC Mosebenzi Zwane –
allegedly paid R220m to the Guptas in what the AFU calls a "scheme
designed to defraud and steal monies from the department". Also read: NPA freezes R220m, land linked to Gupta farm The #GuptaLeaks revealed
last year, how at least R30m, allegedly paid to the Guptas via the farm ended
up funding the family's lavish Sun City wedding in 2013. Cele, who was speaking at the
party's 106-year-anniversary celebrations
in Vryheid, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday claimed Magashule had been
"delivered on a tray" to the Guptas. "He (Magashule) says he was
introduced to the Guptas by the ANC. I see that's why we will have a problem.
This problem is that the Guptas have a stranglehold on us. We are in such a
state as the ANC - we're kicking each other, stepping on each other and
spitting at each other - because of the Guptas," said Cele. He said Magashule had not
explained what his programme with the Guptas was. "Some of us have started
suspecting that his programme is to destroy the ANC." He also criticized Magashule for
telling the Pietermaritzburg crowd that the elected leaders were expected to
lead the party for a five-year
term. "You see comrades you can't
be elected and be SG of the organization and use a platform such as the 106’s anniversary celebrations in
Pietermaritzburg and say you give the leaders you were elected with five years
(to lead). "Who tells you where you'll
be after five years? As you are God now and giving us five years, you must tell
us who sent you to give ANC leadership five years. Who do you work for?"
he asked.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  