The first of between 7.5 and 10 million cubic meters of water being released from the Eikenhof Dam in Grabouw by farmers who are donating the water to Cape Town. (Aletta Harrison/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – SONA was postponed for the interests of the country says Mbete and the rand strengthened after the postponement was announced, millions of litres of priceless water started flowing towards Cape Town and Joost van der Westhuizen is remembered. Have a look at some of our top stories for today: SONA postponed 'in the interests of the country' - Mbete Days of speculation around the State of the Nation Address ended on Tuesday when Parliament's presiding officers postponed it, amid fears that it might once again descend into chaos. EXPLAINER: 5 ways Zuma's departure could unfold With pressure mounting against President Jacob Zuma to step down as president of the country, there are the different ways in which his departure could unfold. Rand up on SONA postponement The rand strengthened slightly on Tuesday afternoon, on news that the State of the Nation Address has been postponed. SONA: 'Ramaphosa Convinced Zuma To Postpone Speech' After a day of furious behind-the-scenes negotiations and deliberations between Parliament, the ANC and the opposition, President Jacob Zuma was apparently convinced by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to postpone the state of the nation address (Sona). President Jacob Zuma leaving Tuynhuys possibly for the last time. He waves to the media. (Paul Herman, News24) God is angry with Cape Town, says Buchan Capetonians should repent if they want rain because God is angry with them, says evangelist Angus Buchan, who is in town to promote a national prayer meeting on March 24 in Mitchells Plain. One year on: Remembering Joost van der Westhuizen Tuesday, February 6, 2018 marks the one-year anniversary of the passing of former Springbok scrumhalf Joost van der Westhuizen.  New ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe's rise through the ranks The ANC's newly appointed national spokesperson's rise through the ranks has not been without scandal. 'The people still love me,' Zuma tells ANC An "arrogant" President Jacob Zuma told the ANC's top six during their meeting on Sunday night that the "people still love him", sources inside the party's national working committee (NWC) said. Decision on Zuma's fate is urgent - Duarte A clear decision on President Jacob Zuma’s fate as head of state is now urgent, ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte said on Tuesday. WATCH: Farmers donate millions of litres of water to Cape Town Millions of litres of priceless water started flowing towards Cape Town on Tuesday, thanks to farmers of the Groenland Water Association. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  