The Constitutional Court is hearing the appeal in the case involving former National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Mxolisi Nxasana and the future of his successor, Shaun Abrahams.   Jump to
                    bottom On whether to prosecute Zuma, who will be prosecutor? How will he be prosecuted? Those decisions should be made by someone in who public can have confidence.  Trengove says he accepts the proposition that conversation may start with the President. But NDPP ultimately goes because he wants to go, not because he is bullied (through inquiry) or seduced with an obscene amount of money. #Nxasana @TeamNews24 Not a lump sum. A normal pension payout, Trengove says. #Nxasana was not allowed a special settlement agreement, other than prescribed terms. Settlement unlawful and unconstitutional and high court correct in declaring it as such. @TeamNews24 Trengove: When an NDPP retires or resigns at own request, may be paid standard prescribed public service pension. #Nxasana According to Zuma, #Nxasana had asked to vacate his position, Trengove says. This does not correspond with the documentation. @TeamNews24 Wim Trengove (for Freedom Under Law) says President explanation that #Nxasana requested to go is irreconcilable with documents before the court. Pres Zuma had claimed to have no knowledge of the related documents important to the matter, he says. @TeamNews24 A summary of the #MxolisiNxasana and #ShaunAbrahams matter in the Constitutional Court today. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/e8ugVPjRHK ICYMI: Shaun Abrahams was validly appointed, NPA argues in court papers Former National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Mxolisi Nxasana was prepared to leave his position if compensated fully, therefore NPA boss Shaun Abrahams was validly appointed into the vacancy, the NPA argues in court papers. On Wednesday, the Constitutional Court will hear the appeal in the case involving Nxasana and the future of his successor, Abrahams. In its heads of arguments, the NPA states that Nxasana's resignation was a "unilateral act which, as a matter of fact, created a vacancy – irrespective of what motivated either the president or Mr Nxasana". The NPA further argues that Abrahams was validly appointed into a vacancy created at the end of Dr Silas Ramaite's stint as acting National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP). ICYMI: ConCourt set to hear appeal in NPA golden handshake saga The Constitutional Court is set to hear the appeal in the case involving former National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Mxolisi Nxasana and the future of his successor, Shaun Abrahams. Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) executive secretary Lawson Naidoo confirmed to News24 that the hearing had been set down for February 28. "We certainly think this [is the end of Abrahams]," Naidoo said. "I think the NPA has been an institution that has brought itself into disrepute in recent times through its own actions." ICYMI: NPA appeal papers: This is what Shaun Abrahams said National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams has argued that at no time during court proceedings was it suggested by the applicants that he acted improperly or that he is not a fit and proper person to occupy his position. Abrahams and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) on Friday filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court against a ruling by the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria that his appointment was invalid. According to Abrahams' answering affidavit, he contested the High Court's finding that there was no vacancy which resulted in his appointment. Jump to
                top