Police officers busy with inspections at a metal scrap yard.PHOTO: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories REUNION Railway Police, Rapid Rail, Prasa, Metro Special Project Unit, Ethekwini Municipality, Mainline Cross Border Police, Umkomaas , Umlazi, Amanzimtoti , Umbumbulu and Isipingo SAPS Designated Second Hands Good officers held a joint operation , in eThekwini Outer South Cluster to address illegal metals being received and sold by scrap-metal businesses in eThekwini Outer South recently. An unannounced inspection was held at various scrap-metal businesses within Isipingo and Umlazi. A joint operation of 60 policemen and women worked together with their partners, to conduct inspections of several scrap-metal businesses in Isipingo. The purpose of the operation was to address issues of illegal metals being received by scrap-metal businesses. Illegal metals such as railway lines, municipality lights, electrical wiring, transformers and various copper cabling, were targeted by the SAPS. The purpose of the inspection was to see whether the dealers complied with the provisions of the Seconds Goods Act. The theft of these metals can have dangerous repercussions when stolen for scrap metal. When railway lines and transformers are stolen, or copper cables taken within communities, it can cause train derailments, electrocutions and no electricity within the community. The joint operation yielded many successes such as various copper cabling and illegal metals being found. A municipality streetlight unit was also found and illegal electricity disconnected, and an arrest for non-compliance by scrap-metal dealers of the Seconds Goods Act was also made by SAPS. The SAPS and its partners are committed to ensuring that regular inspections will continue at second- hand and scrap dealers. The aim is to limit the theft of copper cabling and the stealing of illegal metals within the eThekwini Outer South Cluster. Unannounced visits and inspections will be done on a regular basis. A strong warning is sent out to all second-hand and scrap-metal businesses to comply with all prescriptions within the Second Hands Good Act when receiving goods. Brigadier M.V.P. Mgobhozi, the Acting Cluster Commander of eThekwini Outer South, said: “It is important that we work together for the good of the community. These crimes connected to the theft of copper wiring and railway transformers leave communities in the dark and in danger. “If we can make copper wiring and illegal metals deemed worthless, because our scrap-metal owners will then not purchase these illegal metals, we will then be able to prevent theft that will bring security to the infrastructure of our many communities. “It starts with our scrap yards adhering to the Second Goods Act. We will continue to be inspecting all scrap yards on a regular basis to ensure there is no copper cable theft and illegal metal theft.” — Supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  