Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 “Mitchells Klein” will be released on Soundcloud. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Despite the negative narrative linked to Mitchell’s Plain, a local artist is determined to change that by lending its name to his first extended play (EP) record. Steven Fortuin, known as Klein Fortuin, is set to release his first EP and listeners can expect to hear somewhat of a tribute to his home town. “The EP was inspired by my home town, Mitchell’s Plain. Despite all the bad things happening in the Plain, all these negatives serve as a constant motivation for me to use my music and paint a positive and truthful picture of Mitchell’s Plain,” he says. The EP is called Mitchells Kleinthis is the way the name is written, please do not add apostrophe to Mitchell’s and follows his first successful release called Klein Begin. Mitchells Klein will be launched on his Soundcloud for free downloading and streaming. “The EP’s name is a combination of where I am from and my artist name – this is my declaration that I am behind Mitchell’s Plain literally and figuratively, just like the Plain has supported me since I started rapping. I urge people to keep an eye on my Facebook page to get the scoop on the release,” he says. He has also released a video relating to the EP, which can be found on his social media platforms. “Since releasing the Mitchells Klein short film, the response has been positive. People admire the honesty and rawness. The best responses are about how relatable people find it. The EP consists of 11 tracks. “I wasn’t going with a theme but rather more of a reflection of Mitchell’s Plain as my home town through my eyes and with some insight into my life.” Listeners can look forward to a lot of humorous punchlines and pickup lines based on a variety of topics. “Though funny, the statements I make and the stories I tell come from a truthful place, so expect honesty from track to track.” Fortuin adds: “A special thanks to my parents for raising and supporting me and my management team, Katalis Productions, for investing in me and constantly creating new opportunities for me.” V 
  For more information, visit https://soundcloud.com/klein-fortuin and like his Facebook page: Klein Fortuin. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  