Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Sello Hatang  As an organisation with a clear mandate to
promote the legacy of Nelson Mandela, the Nelson Mandela Foundation carries a
special responsibility as we enter the year marking the centenary of Madiba’s
birth. It cannot be a time of focusing
only on his life – 2018 is full of other significant anniversaries, from the
25th anniversary of both Chris Hani’s assassination and the 1993 negotiated
settlement to the centenary of Ma Sisulu’s birth. Already the year has seen us mourning the
losses of four prominent South Africans who strove for excellence and made
their mark in contributing to the realisation of a truly liberated South Africa
- bo-ntate Keorapetse Kgositsile, Hugh Masekela and actor Sandy Mokwena
(popularly known as Bra Eddie on TV), and Mme Rica Hodgson. We hope their
passing can serve as a reminder that transformative change can come through the
sounds of music, art that challenges us and the ink of a poet. As we ask South
Africans to “Be the Legacy” in 2018, it means using our gifts and tools,
wherever we are stationed in life, in a way that dismantles the unequal
structures of power and protects the most vulnerable. 2018 should also not be the year of simply
celebrating Madiba. For the Foundation
it has to be primarily about continuing his work.  He and his generation of leadership had
enormous impact and contributed much. But there remains unfinished business. Through the centenary year the focus of the Foundation’s endeavour will
be in three main areas – fighting poverty and inequality, striving to eradicate
the scourge of racism, and reckoning with our country’s oppressive pasts. We take to heart the critique of NGOs offered
by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng – while there is a need and a role for NGOs
related to the socio-political contingencies of the day, their calling is to
address the deep structural dimensions of oppression which South Africa has
only begun to grapple with. Recent events at the Overvaal school
illustrate this well. It is too easy to
jump in to situations like this, to demand quick-fix solutions and to use the
vulnerable (in this instance young children) in the frontlines. In my own engagements with Overvaal,
including a visit to the school, I realised that many advocates of change aren't
really interested in including African languages in the curriculum, but rather
in promoting the dominance of English. Equally, constructive discussion has
been undermined by those who perceive multilingualism as a threat to their 'way
of life'. Communities can be brought together by the flourishing of
multilingual schools. But this has been hampered by language policies that do
not put adequate pressure on institutions to use more than one of South
Africa’s eleven official languages. Language is crucial. It is through language that communities
interact and integrate and build social cohesion, it is through language that we find
liberation. This is why Madiba prioritised it and strove for a strategy that
would be inclusive. I am reminded of his
words: "We do not want to abolish any language; we want to raise the African
languages which have been side-lined through the policy of apartheid to
equality with English and Afrikaans. That doesn’t mean to say that we are
actually downgrading Afrikaans and English; we are merely saying that the other
languages must be put on the same basis." South Africa has waited too long for
radical transformation. For too long we
have been held back by the normalisation of the abnormal and the embrace of
mediocrity. For too long we have been
betrayed by leadership at all levels and in all sectors which has prioritised
self-enrichment rather than societal liberation. I welcome the signs that 2018 has already
given us of a sea-change in this scenario. From hearings in Parliament to investigations by security structures,
from commissions of enquiry to disciplinary interventions within institutions,
we are seeing those in positions of public trust being held accountable. In many ways this represents an insistence
that nothing less than excellence is acceptable. May 2018 be remembered as the year in which
radical transformation gained traction in our beloved country. Not just as a
populist slogan but a call to action for doing differently!  - Hatang is the chief executive officer of the Nelson Mandela Foundation. * This article was amended after publication. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   