Morgan Tsvangirai (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai is reported to be "seriously ill" in a South African hospital after
his "condition deteriorated rapidly" on Monday. A Reuters report quoted a source from Tsvangirai's  Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) as saying
on Tuesday that the veteran opposition leader was "critically ill", adding that
his supporters should "brace for the worst". Tsvangirai, a former prime
minister, announced in 2016 that he had been diagnosed with colon cancer and
had begun chemotherapy. He has been in and out of
hospital since disclosing his condition. He returned to a Johannesburg
hospital for his latest round of treatment in early January. A Daily News report on Tuesday quoted a family source as
saying that  Tsvangirai was "plagued by exhaustion,
weight loss and muscle thinning". See the Daily News tweet below. "He has lost appetite and is facing difficulty eating or
swallowing fluids… As of yesterday (Monday), he was said to be breathing
slowly, sometimes with very long pauses between breaths", the report said. Reports last month said that Tsvangirai's situation had
gone dire, with NewsDay saying that his doctors had indicated he had
"three months to live". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Tsvangirai, however, took to his personal Twitter page -
also quoted by the state-owned Chronicle newspaper 
at the time, and dismissed the reports as "speculation". He wrote: "It is all
speculation. No deadline has been given to me and my family. I am getting
routine attention like any other cancer patient and i will be back in Zim
shortly. Meanwhile lets all register to vote and those who can attend the
alliance rallies. Do not mind the madness." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  