Grief as Zimbabwe opposition icon Tsvangirai dies Harare - Zimbabwe was plunged into grief on Thursday following the death of veteran opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, roundly praised as a hero, champion of democracy and symbol of resistance who will be hard to replace. The former trade union stalwart who posed the most formidable challenge to the ruling Zanu PF party's nearly four-decade hold on power, died on Wednesday in a hospital in neighbouring South Africa where he was being treated for colon cancer. He was 65. For more on this story click here Mnangagwa mourns Tsvangirai, pledges to hold 'free, fair polls' in his honour Harare – Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has conveyed his condolences to the family of the late opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, who died on Wednesday after a battle with cancer. Tsvangirai, 65, who founded the MDC in 1999, was among the most prominent critics of ex-president Robert Mugabe, the long-time authoritarian leader who was ousted from power in November. For more on this story click here WATCH: Zimbabwe opposition party names acting president Harare - Zimbabwe's main opposition party has named Nelson Chamisa acting president of the party. He replaces long-time opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai who died in South Africa on Wednesday. Read more on this story here 'Shock, devastation' following MDC leader Tsvangirai's death Cape Town - Acting Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader, Nelson Chamisa has expressed "shock and devastation" following the death of the party's president Morgan Tsvangirai. Tsvangirai, 65, the veteran Zimbabwean opposition leader who fought Robert Mugabe's regime for many years, died on Wednesday after battling against cancer. Tsvangirai, who founded the MDC in 1999, was among the most prominent critics of Mugabe, the long-time authoritarian leader who was ousted from power in November. Read more on this story here Kenyan judge revokes orders to deport opposition leader Nairobi - A Kenyan judge has rescinded the orders used to deport to Canada an opposition politician over his alleged role in a mock inauguration by opposition leader Raila Odinga. Judge Luka Kimaru also orderered Kenya's government to return the passport confiscated from Miguna Miguna when he was deported. Miguna was at Odinga's side when he took an oath as the "people's president" last month in a protest against President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. Read more on this story here Ethiopian prime minister resigns following mass protests Addis Ababa - Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn has submitted a letter of resignation, the state-affiliated Fana Broadcasting Corporate station reported on Thursday. The resignation of Hailemariam, in power since 2012, comes amid protracted anti-government protests and follows a nationwide state of emergency last year. His stepping down from power is unprecedented in the vast East African country. Read more on this story here OBITUARY: Morgan Tsvangirai 'a veteran opposition fighter who never reached his goal' Harare - Morgan Tsvangirai, Zimbabwe’s veteran opposition leader, who fought Robert Mugabe's regime for many years has died. He was 65. Arrested, beaten, charged with treason, and eventually made prime minister – Tsvangirai never achieved his aim to become president. He was set to try for a fourth time in 2018, but the cancer he was diagnosed with in 2016 robbed him of that dream. The dangerous work of a unionist in an autocratic state prepared him for the dirty game of Zimbabwean politics. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  