Johan Eybers (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories For more than a month, Joseph Mona (36) complained to the authorities that his employer abused him. He went to the police in Springs in Ekurhuleni, Gauteng, and to the Equality Court in Germiston to complain about how his employer and his son allegedly forced him to swallow a litre of faeces and then threw him in a septic tank full of sewage. He also went to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) in Boksburg to complain about the thousands of rands his employer allegedly didn’t paid him. Nobody bothered to look into his claims until a court official eventually went to the Economic Freedom Fighters [EFF] to complain that he hadn’t received any justice, Mona said. “If it was not for political pressure, nothing probably would have happened,” he said. Maria Leicester (50) and her 27-year-old son Chris were taken into custody on Thursday. Her husband has been admitted to hospital with kidney failure and hasn’t yet been charged. Mother and son appeared in the Springs Magistrates’ Court on charges of crimen injuria, kidnapping and aggravated assault on Friday. Mona speaks of his nightmare that began on December 9, when the father and son allegedly tortured him because he didn’t switch on the septic tank on their plot in Endicott near Springs. “They woke me up and screamed that I was a useless k****r,” he said. “Chris held my hands behind my back and his father scooped a jug into the sewage and forced me to drink it while they screamed at me that I was a k****r. “Chris kicked my feet out from under me and I fell into the septic tank that was full of sewage. He and his father closed the hole with the corrugated iron sheet and left me in the stinking sewage,” said Mona. He said he managed to crawl out of the tank half an hour later after surviving by clutching onto a plastic pipe. “I went immediately to my room to wash myself.” The following day, his employer and his son pretended as if nothing had happened, but they wouldn’t allow him to leave the property, he said. When Mona went to the police station in Springs a few days later to try to open a case against the family, a police officer threatened to arrest him, he said. He eventually approached the equality court for help, but they referred him back to the police station in Springs. He is still waiting for feedback from the CCMA about his allegation that he worked for months without receiving his full salary. EFF Ekurhuleni councillor Fann Sibeko said that the court official was so shocked about how the authorities handled the case that she contacted the EFF. “We first had to lay a charge at the Springs Police Station before the police were prepared to investigate the case.” Chris confirmed on Friday that he had a pending case of assault against him. The case was postponed for further investigation. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  