Jan Bornman President Jacob Zuma (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Deputy Chief Justce Raymond Zondo promised South Africans the the commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture would do a thorough job during a briefing held on Tuesday 23 January. Watch. WATCH Johannesburg – The DA has formally requested to participate in the commission of inquiry into state capture which was announced by President Jacob Zuma last month. The opposition party has written to Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, who was recommended by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to head the commission, to seek permission to be part of the inquiry that is set to be based on a report by former public protector Thuli Madonsela. ALSO READ: The Free State can now 'rid itself of corruption' – DA after raid on Magashule's office The terms of reference released last week are expected to guide the investigation into allegations that there was an improper relationship between Zuma and his friends, the Gupta family. News24 reported that, making the announcement, the president said he was "guided by the [former] Public Protector's State of Capture report, the Constitution, relevant legislation, policies and guidelines". The DA's federal council chairperson, James Selfe, said the party made the request on the basis that it had direct interest in the proceedings of the commission as one of three complainants to the Public Protector in 2016. 'Mammoth task' "The deputy chief justice and his team have a mammoth task ahead of them as they begin the long overdue process of investigating the allegations of state capture against President Jacob Zuma, the Guptas and their associates," Selfe said in a statement on Thursday. "The DA is of the belief that we can make valuable contributions to the commission, as we can share valuable evidence and shed more light on the extent of corruption within the ANC government," he said. ALSO READ: Zuma and son must testify at inquiry - DA Selfe said the party was aware of and respected the major logistical and administrative considerations that would come with a commission of such magnitude. "We trust that the deputy chief justice will consider our request and we await his favourable response thereto," he said. Last week, Madonsela told News24 that the terms of reference were too broad and that it would take "a lifetime" for one commission to probe all government corruption. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  