Caryn Dolley Controversial businessman Nafiz Modack. (Caryn Dolley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack allegedly threatened to have the prosecutor, investigating officer and two police officers involved in the extortion case against him murdered, the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court has heard. Prosecutor Esna Erasmus questioned investigating officer Charl Kinnear about this on Wednesday. This is after it emerged that threats were levelled at Erasmus, Kinnear, Major General Jeremy Vearey, who heads up the Cape Town cluster of police stations, as well as a Captain Jaftha, who is also part of the cluster. Members of this police cluster arrested Modack and his co-accused. ALSO READ: Modack extortion case: Art of police ‘deception and infiltration’ discussed On Wednesday, while under re-examination, Kinnear said proceedings were halted last Friday after the death threats came to light. He said information was received from the crime intelligence unit as well as others not part of the police. "As per the information that was received... [Modack] arranged to have Captain Jaftha, myself, Vearey and the prosecutor killed," Kinnear testified. For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld nightclub security takeover, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked Modack is accused of extortion and intimidation alongside Carl Lakay, Ashley Fields, Colin Booysen – suspected Sexy Boys gang boss Jerome Booysen’s brother - and Jacques Cronje. They face charges relating to the nightclub security industry in that they allegedly took over security operations at clubs and restaurants, forcing owners to pay them. The group was arrested on December 15 and lodged a bail application shortly afterwards. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  