Boipelo Mere The mayor of the Sol Plaatje Municipality, Mangaliso Matika, will henceforward arrive in style with a police helicopter at protests. At the launch of Operation Fiela on Friday (09/02), Matika was accompanied by Lt. Gen. Risimati Shivuri, the Northern Cape police commissioner. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The mayor of the Sol Plaatje Municipality, Mangaliso Matika, will from now on arrive in a police helicopter at community protests around the pro­vince. This was confirmed by Lt. Gen. Risimati Shivuri, Northern Cape police commissioner, who warned that the police would not hesitate to shoot when negotiations between protesters and the police turn sour. He promised that the police helicopter would from now on collect the mayor and fly him to meet the protesters. Various simulations by different units in the police force were done during the launch of Operation Fiela at the Galeshewe Stadium on Friday (09/02). Shivuri said the simulations were an indication that nothing is impossible for the police to resolve, as long as there is communication between the two parties. Through Operation Fiela the police will be reclaiming a safe space in the whole province through crime fighting operations. All sectors of crime fighting operations will be active, working with members of the Correctional Service, Home Affairs and traffic officials. During his speech to mark the event, Shivuri emphasised that all disciplines used by the police did not involve force, but engagement. “Through Operation Fiela, whoever commits a crime, will be brought to book,” he emphasised. Protesters were further sternly warned to listen to the police and report their grievances to them. This includes their demand on who they want to meet. “During toyi-toying we will first send the normal crime prevention unit, who will try to negotiate with the protes­ters to deal with the situation and to negotiate. “If they (the protesters) don’t listen, we will bring in the Public Order Policing Unit.” “If they don’t cooperate with the Public Order Policing, I will bring in the “berets” (the Tactical Response Team)” he said. Shivuri said some protesters drink energy drinks before toyi-toying to be more active and full of energy. He promised that patrollers would be seen on every street and block, and would be visible to ensure that “night riders” (people walking at night, which can cause suspicion) are dealt with. Referring to young men visiting girlfriends in a community at night, he said: “If a person is standing at the corner waiting for somebody beautiful, he must introduce himself to the community and disclose his name if they want to know it.” This is all done to ensure the safety of a community. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  