(Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Proteas spinner Imran Tahir was verbally and racially abused by a cricket fan at the Wanderers stadium, the Patricia de Lille matter has gone on for too long, says Mmusi Maimane and don’t miss out on these royal wedding details. Here are some of our top stories of the day: DEVELOPING: No deal yet on Zuma - Presidency The ANC's national executive committee meeting is still ongoing amidst rumours that President Jacob Zuma has agreed to resign. Meanwhile, opposition parties have called for the dissolution of Parliament. Opposition parties want Parliament dissolved, early elections Opposition parties on Monday agreed that Parliament should be dissolved following a motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. 'Henri smoked 3 cigarettes while waiting for Marli to die' – prosecutor Henri van Breda did not do anything to help his family after they were axed in their De Zalze home three years ago and instead of helping his younger sister, he "smoked three cigarettes while waiting for her to die," the Western Cape High Court heard on Monday. WATCH: Imran Tahir racially abused at the Wanderers – CSA Cricket South Africa (CSA) says Proteas spinner Imran Tahir was verbally and racially abused by a cricket fan at the Wanderers this past weekend.  How the ANC bungled Zuma's departure The only thing worse than a crisis is failure to acknowledge that it exists. This sums up how the ANC is handling President Jacob Zuma's exit from power, writes Ralph Mathekga. De Lille matter has gone on for too long - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane says the ongoing stand-off between his party and Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille needs to be brought to an end. ‘It’s a dream come true’ – Trevor Noah on his Oprah interview  An SA-built best seller: Explaining Volkswagen's Polo Vivo victory How does a two-generation old VW remain SA’s most popular car? Lance Branquinho explains the success of the Polo Vivo. #BlackPanther Backlash: Overwhelmingly black & beautiful places you need to see Some have criticised the new Marvel movie Black Panther for being 'overwhelmingly black'. Royal Wedding: All the important details about the big day Prince Harry and fiancée American actress Meghan Markle have released more details about their 19 May wedding, revealing that the event will include a carriage ride through Windsor so they can share the big day with the public.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  