Aphiwe Boyce PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories That President Jacob Zuma divides opinion is not contestable. Whatever views anyone possesses about him, what can never be taken away from Zuma are his liberation and scandalous credentials. But today announcement by the Parliament that the State of the Nation Address has been postponed as debate rages around his future is a sign of the end of his nine-year corruption tainted administration. Speaking before the shocking announcement was made by Parliament, Political analyst Zamikhaya Maseti said that any postponement would mean the end of the road for Zuma. “We can expect his resignation anytime from now. It’s time for the ANC [African National Congress]. The postponement of SONA means end of the road for him. If he can’t deliver SONA tomorrow that means kuphelile ngaye (he is finished). It’s a sunset for Zuma,” Maseti said. According to News24, the “arrogant" Zuma reportedly told the ANC's top six during their meeting on Sunday night that the “people still love him”.  It was reported that the officials gave the ANC NWC feedback following their two hours of deliberations with Zuma, during which they asked him to resign. However, Zuma refused to step down, telling the party's leadership that he had done nothing wrong. Another political analyst Ralph Mathekga said the ANC has been toying around with people’s feelings. “It’s time for them to act and deal with Zuma. They have raised people’s expectations for many weeks, it’s time to put that to an end.” Reacting to reports about Zuma’s assertions that people still love him, Mathekga said, “I don’t what people is he talking about. Maybe he doesn’t read or listen to the news to hear what people say about him or he has conducted his own research. But it won’t an easy task to remove him. The man is very stubborn and the ANC needs to handle the issue very carefully and internally.” Doctor Somadoda Fikeni agrees with Mathekga, “Zuma will not go down without a fight. That will make it difficult for the ANC and this can divide the NEC members.” Fikeni said if people still loved Zuma, there would be no decline in the ANC support, which led to it losing majority of Metros in the 2016 local government elections.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  