Auxillia Mnangagwa (File: AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Masvingo - Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s wife has reportedly given up her seat as Chirumanzu-Zibabwe legislator, to focus more on her role as the country’s first lady. According to the Standard newspaper, president Mnangagwa broke the news to multitudes of "teary" Zanu-PF supporters over the weekend during a rally held at Mvuma stadium. Mnangagwa told the gathering that his wife, Auxilia, now wanted to concentrate on her role as mother of the whole nation and not just a particular constituency. “She (Auxillia) said she could not be Amai Mnangagwa for Chirumanzu-Zibagwe but that she should be the mother of the nation. So we agreed with Amai Mnangagwa that she should step down as MP here. She is stopping being MP from today (Saturday) onwards and she becomes the mother of the nation. She is now MP everywhere she goes,” Mnangagwa was quoted as saying. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. The report said that a group of women from the ruling party wailed in front of the VIP podium, with some throwing themselves on the ground soon after the announcement. They didn't want her to resign. The First Lady took over the Chirumanzu-Zibabwe constituency soon after her husband - who previously held it - was appointed as ex-president Robert Mugabe’s deputy in 2015, reported New Zimbabwe.com. There was no law in the country preventing the First Lady from retaining her lawmaker seat but it became apparent that she needed to focus on her philanthropic work as the country’s first lady. Since her husband assumed office in November the First Lady has been visiting public hospitals and engaging various public platforms to do humanitarian work, the report said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  