Mugabe 'never made mistakes', says Zim President Mnangagwa Harare - Two months after pushing aside his former boss in a military takeover, Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa still carefully maintains that Robert Mugabe made no mistakes while he was in power. The new Zimbabwe leader does, however, repeat the line that those around the former president took advantage of his advanced years to usurp some of his powers. Read more on this story here It's 'purely fake news' that I've political ambitions, says Mnangagwa's son Harare – President Emmerson Mnangagwa's son has reportedly denied claims that he is set on running for a parliamentary seat currently held by his mother, First Lady Auxilia Mnangagwa. A report over the weekend by Daily News said that the Mnangagwas were planning on forming a "political dynasty" - "as was the case with former President Robert Mugabe’s family". The report quoted sources as saying that Mnangagwa's two sons - Emmerson Jr and Tongai -  were preparing to contest for the Chirumhanzu-Zibagwa and Harare south seats respectively. For more on this story click here Former Kenyan VP: Home attacked in 'assassination attempt' Nairobi - Former Kenyan vice president Kalonzo Musyoka said on Wednesday gunshots were fired at his home and a grenade detonated in what was "an assassination attempt." Musyoka told The Associated Press by phone on Wednesday the attack occurred hours after his police security was withdrawn and he had been blocked from attending a mock inauguration of opposition leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday in protest of President Uhuru Kenyatta's new term after months of deadly election turmoil. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Musyoka was to take the oath as Odinga's deputy president in the mock inauguration. "The motive was clearly political," he said describing as "shocking" the 01:00 blast.  Read more on this story here Zimbabweans 'must thank Grace Mugabe' for 'fast tracking' her husband's fall, says Mujuru Harare – Zimbabwe's former deputy president, Joice Mujuru, has reportedly said that the country owes former first lady Grace Mugabe "gratitude", as she "fast tracked" her husband's fall in November last year. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Mujuru, who is now the leader of the opposition National People's Party (NPP), said that the former first lady's behaviour in the past  three years led to her ageing husband Robert Mugabe's ouster. Mujuru said this when she made her first address to community leaders in the country's Mashonaland Central province. For more on this story click here Zambian anti-gay law hounds two women Lusaka  - Zambian police are searching for two young women suspected of breaking the conservative country's tough anti-homosexuality laws after images of them in intimate poses surfaced on social media, officers said on Wednesday. The photographs, published by local media, show two young women relaxing together apparently in a bar or club and include a shot of one of the pair resting her head on her companion's chest. President Edgar Lungu, who was re-elected in 2016, has spoken out strongly against gay rights, despite pressure from donor countries that provide essential aid to the country. Read more on this story here Egypt opposition urges boycott of presidential election Cairo - Opposition parties and figures in Egypt called on Tuesday for a boycott of the March presidential election in which incumbent Abdel Fattah al-Sisi looks set to romp to victory. Branding the poll a "charade", the coalition of eight parties and 150 public figures announced a campaign under the slogan "Stay at home" ahead of voting on March 26-28. "No to participation in this charade," said Hamdeen Sabbahi, a presidential candidate in 2012 and 2014. For more on this story click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  