Murder-accused Henri van Breda is facing closing arguments in the Western Cape High Court.  Jump to
                    bottom Galloway says indication of premeditation is #VanBreda would've had to arm himself and return to where act took place, Sasha would have had to have been put somewhere, he did nothing after the attack and instead of helping Marli smoked 3 cigarettes while waiting for her to die. Adv Galloway says giving false information to mislead the case is the obstruction of justice. Refers to throwing of axe, alleged moving items on the scene, giving false information to the police. #VanBreda Dr Olckers could point out 3 or 4 mistakes of hundreds of samples. No actual contamination was proven, Adv Galloway says. #VanBreda Dr Olckers' evidence is of no value, Adv Galloway says. Adv Botha and the defence look annoyed. #VanBreda Judge Desai says defence DNA forensic expert Dr Olckers didn't do the most fundamental thing - test the DNA samples. #VanBreda Adverse inferences could be made by the court as to why expert witnesses Dr Reggie Perumal and Cobus Steyl were not called by the defence, Galloway says. #VanBreda An epileptic fit is not the only reason why #VanBreda may have wet his pants, Galloway says. Someone in a postictal state won't be able to strategise or reason. Adv Galloway says while #VanBreda may now suffer from epilepsy, Dr Butler's opinion is based on a backdated diagnosis and it should be considered with caution as it may be incorrect. Further says the evidence from the defence's expert witnesses was theoretical possibilities and hearsay. #VanBreda Adv Galloway continues her closing arguments. Criticises the defence's expert testimony as speculation. #VanBreda Jansen interviewed family, friends and "key figures with insight"." They
 paint a picture of parents who had been perplexed with their difficult 
'loner' child," said Jansen, adding that Henri's drug addiction 
apparently led to "great discord" in the house and he was apparently 
angry at his parents who favoured his brother, Rudi, over him. Journalist Julian Jansen was one of the first journalists on
the scene and has been covering the case for Rapport. His book, The De Zalze Murders, "tells the story behind
the newspaper headlines", offering insights that have not yet been
publicly heard and highlighting the human side of the tragedy. "The Van Bredas of Stellenbosch were apparently the
perfect family - rich, successful and popular. In the luxurious De Zalze estate
they have a dream life. And then everything changes in an instant," he
said. On his final day in the witness stand, neurologist Dr James Butler 
said it was possible that Van Breda had committed the murders before 
suffering an epileptic seizure, which could explain why there was a 
two-hour-and-40-minute lapse before he phoned emergency services. During
 cross-examination, Butler agreed that it was more probable that the 
possibly self-inflicted injuries would have occurred after the murders, 
but before the seizure and postictal state (recovery period after a 
seizure). Marli van Breda asks not to be made available to brother's defence team, court hears Marli van Breda has indicated to the State that she would not want to be
 made available to the defence, the Western Cape High Court heard Van Breda trial: What the State witnesses said Henri van Breda claimed that after a fight with the axe-wielding intruder, who was also armed with a knife, the man escaped.Here is a wrap of the State’s case. Desai has been a judge for more than 20 years and was born
in Salt River, Cape Town. Desai was shortlisted for the position of Public Protector
which went to Busisiwe Mkhwebane Judge Desai's notable cases: Murder trial of Najwa Petersen, who was handed a 28-year
prison sentence in 2009 for her role in the murder of her husband, music legend
Taliep Petersen. Trial of 14-year-old Valencia Farmer's killers. She was
raped and stabbed 53 times in 1999. Desai led the post mortem investigation after former South
African cricket captain Hansie Cronjé died in an airplane crash in 2002. Judge Desai says Olckers gave all the criticism she could, but didn't test any of the blood. Can an expert do that? Is that tenable? #VanBreda Galloway says defence witnesses were not objective, merely trying to test state case by raising possibilities. Does not comply with duties of expert witnesses. Makes specific reference to Dr Olckers. #VanBreda Galloway says only reasonable inference is that Henri didn't suffer an epileptic fit and was in a postictal state - he strategised when making emergency calls, mapping his location. He gives detailed reasons why he acted in a certain manner. Remained calm, unemotional. #VanBreda Even if #VanBreda now suffers from epilepsy, no evidence that he suffered this at the time of the incident, Galloway says. Time lapse between #VanBreda attack and when emergency was called - Du Treveau and Henri initially said he didn't suffer from any conditions. Explanation changed at last minute when he had an epileptic fit. He now had 2 seizures after the attack, Galloway says. Galloway points out no rebuttal from defence on expert evience - Reggie Perumal vs Anthony, Joubert, Tiemensma and Dempers. Perumal never testified. Cobus Steyl for Joubert, Van der Westhuizen, Brown regarding blood evidence, shoe print and the axe being thrown. #VanBreda Adv Galloway says #VanBreda cant explain why their house chosen, why attackers went to a lot of trouble to gain access without stealing anything, left an eyewitness virtually unharmed, why his injuries were so different to that of his family, why he called gf instead of for help. Adv Galloway says Henri #VanBreda's testimony was a well-rehearsed version of his plea explanation. Henri #VanBreda spoke in a superior manner ,tried to reason his decision making and demeanour while on the stand. When he couldn't remember, he still tried to explain or justify. The ultimate impression left was a poor one. Jump to
                top