The launch the Orange Vermillion ‘Nelson Mandela Rose’ at the Nelson Mandela Foundation. (Image via Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the ANC caucus on Thursday, as talks continue following the postponement of SONA,  and the nation awaits news on the future of President Jacob Zuma. Watch. 
WATCH Cape Town - Deal for Life Esidimeni families to receive R200 000 each, while other claims are being determined; Ubuntu awards postponed over Parliament's SONA decision and Cyril Ramaphosa assures MPs that ‘transition’ talks will be done in ‘a day or two’. Here are today’s top stories: No immunity for Zuma - Ramaphosa tells ANC caucus ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa has told the party's Parliamentary caucus that immunity from prosecution for President Jacob Zuma is not part of "transition" discussions. Ubuntu awards postponed over Parliament's SONA decision The 2018 annual Ubuntu awards have been postponed until further notice, the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) announced. Former Western Cape top cop pleads guilty to corruption charge Former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer has pleaded guilty to certain charges in a corruption, money laundering and racketeering trial against him. Sassa asks ConCourt to extend CPS contract for six months The SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) has filed papers at the Constitutional Court asking for a six month extension of its contract with Cash Paymasters Services (CPS). Deal for Life Esidimeni families to receive R200 000 each, while other claims are being determined The State and claimants in the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearings have reached an agreement on damages in some of the claims by the families who lost loved ones during the transfer of mental health patients to a number of unlicensed NGOs. WATCH: Phahlane charged with corruption, out on R10 000 bail Kgomotso Phahlane‚ his wife Brigadier Beauty Phahlane and used-car salesman Durand Snyman appeared in the Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria for alleged corruption and money laundering. Zuma can’t tell the ANC what to do - Mashatile The ANC will not take instructions on what to do from one of its deployees, including President Jacob Zuma, says its treasurer general Paul Mashatile. Nelson Mandela rose makes debut ahead of Valentine's Day Ahead of Valentine's Day, the Nelson Mandela Foundation has unveiled an orange and vermilion rose named after the anti-apartheid leader who became South Africa's first black president. Komphela: I would sacrifice my life for Chiefs trophy Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela says he is willing to die if it meant that the Glamour Boys could finally end their three-year drought without winning a trophy. Drought could be declared national disaster by Feb 14 The National Disaster Management Centre will say by February 14 whether it will declare the drought and overall water scarcity in some provinces a national disaster, Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Des Van Rooyen said on Thursday. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  