Teboho Setena Members of the police at the scene of the bus accident on 17 April 2016 in which ten people died. One of the busdrivers was sentenced to five years in prison on Tuesday, 6 February. Photo: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of the two bus drivers implicated in the tragic bus accident that killed several ANC members in 2016 has been slapped with a five-year prison term. Mporo Maake was sentenced in the Winburg Regional Court on Tuesday, 6 February, bringing some closure to the tragic accident which occurred on 17 April 2016. Capt. Malebo Khosana, spokesperson of the Winburg cluster police, says Maake’s co-accused was acquitted on charges relating to the fatal bus accident. “The court withdrew the case against the second accused, while the other was found guilty. The drivers were facing charges of culpable homicide and reckless and negligent driving,” says Khosana. The two drivers have been on trial since January last year following the completion of investigations into the bus accident. The case was assigned to WO Eddie Mothibi of the Winburg police detec­tive service. The bus was transporting 65 members of the ANC following their attendance of the party’s election campaign rally in Port Elizabeth when it overturned on the N1 between Winburg and Ventersburg. According to the police, the fatal accident happened about 20 km from Winburg in the direction of Ventersburg. The two drivers had alle­gedly swapped seats while the bus was still in motion when it overturned, killing ten people and leaving several seriously injured. The survivors of the accident were admitted to various hospitals in the Free State. The bus was carrying ANC members to Ekurhuleni in Gauteng, after they had attended the launch of the ANC’s local government elections manifesto. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  