(Photo: Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – The ANC will support a motion of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma, the house of Zupta is tumbling down, writes Adriaan Basson and judgment will be delivered in the trial of murder accused Henri van Breda on April 23. Take a look at some of our top stories: SA might be rid of Zuma by Thursday evening After weeks of "discussions" with President Jacob Zuma, ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile has announced that the party's MPs would support the EFF's motion of no confidence against Zuma. Hawks' Guptas clamp down long overdue, says OUTA City Press has learnt from a source close to the Guptas’ legal team that the elder Gupta brother, Ajay Gupta, has been taken in for questioning following three arrests made by Hawks. Rand races to under R11.80/$ as ANC moves on vote against Zuma The rand raced to R11.79/$ after the ANC announced at a media briefing on Wednesday afternoon that the ruling party will vote on a motion of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma. WATCH: ANC will support motion of no confidence against Zuma The ANC in Parliament has decided to remove President Jacob Zuma through a motion of no confidence on Thursday if he doesn't resign on Wednesday. Watch.  #VanBreda judgment to be handed down on April 23 Murder-accused Henri van Breda's judgment is expected to be handed down on April 23, in the Western Cape High Court. India take Proteas' No 1 ODI ranking Following their series-clinching win over South Africa in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday, India have usurped the Proteas as the No 1-ranked team in one-day international (ODI) cricket. The house of Zupta is tumbling down Jacob Zuma was the Godfather in a criminal arrangement with the Guptas. None of the plundering would have been possible if he didn't enable it, writes Adriaan Basson. 'Two presidents who failed to read the mood': Zimbabweans react to #ZumaRecall Zimbabweans have taken to Twitter to express their views on South Africa’s unfolding political drama, and many see parallels with the one that gripped their own country when Robert Mugabe was removed from office three months ago. Meghan Markle says her bachelorette bash is “sorted” Meghan is ready for one last big bash before tying the knot to her Prince Charming. Should we be using wet wipes and waterless sanitisers? Soon the Western Cape will be living off the dregs of its freshwater reservoirs, and taking a daily shower may be a thing of the past. Many people are concerned about cleanliness and maintaining their personal hygiene. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  