Zimbabwe’s former army commander and newly appointed vice president General Constantino Chiwenga. (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – Zimbabwean Vice President Constantino Chiwenga's mother in-law is
reportedly believed to be preparing to contest for a parliamentary seat in the
forthcoming elections. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Helga Mubaiwa was over the
weekend introduced to hundreds of villagers by leaders in Manyame rural
district in Seke as the next member of parliament. This was after she
reportedly helped  the area complete the construction of a local clinic
and school. Mubaiwa was the wife of Ken Mubaiwa, the Dynamos football club president,
and their daughter Marry Mubaiwa was married to Chiwenga. Chiwenga, who led a military takeover that helped end Robert Mugabe's
37-year rule was sworn in as one of the country's two vice presidents
in December. He took the oath of office in Harare, pledging to be "faithful"
to Zimbabwe and to "obey, uphold and defend the constitution". Chiwenga
was likely to be retained as the country's deputy president after the
forthcoming elections. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Manyame
rural district chairperson, Dickson Mudzara, said Seke was in need of business
people like Mubaiwa to contest in elections and represent them in parliament as
some politicians had proven to be incompetent after failing to complete the
construction of Whealerdale Clinic and St Hughes primary school. "For
the past five years, senior Zanu-PF officials here have been failing to
complete the construction of the clinic. However, Mai Mubaiwa has managed to do
that even before becoming an MP," Mudzara was quoted as saying. Zimbabwe was set to hold elections before the end of July after
the country's president Emmerson Mnangagwa pointed to an
earlier date than expected. "Zimbabwe is going for elections in four to five months' time
and we have to preach peace, peace and peace," Mnangagwa was quoted as
saying last month. Mnangagwa, 75, vowed to hold fair elections to ensure Zimbabwe
"engages the world as a qualified democratic state," according the
state-owned Herald newspaper. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  