Lizeka Tandwa Atul Gupta (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Controversial Gupta brother Atul was in Dubai when he 
signed the affidavit that forms part of his application to have a 
preservation order obtained against him, by the NPA's Asset Forfeiture 
Unit (AFU), set aside. In the court papers, dated February 8, 
Gupta acknowledged that the affidavit was signed and sworn in Dubai. The
 affidavit was stamped and signed by a commissioner of oaths at the 
South African Consulate in Dubai. "I wish to state at the outset, that I am currently outside South Africa," he said. READ: Hawks went back and forth with Ajay Gupta lawyer - Mbalula In
 the 18-page affidavit, Gupta said that National Director of Public 
Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams "not only failed to make out a case for 
relief sought", but also misled the court with the evidence which led to
 the order being granted. Gupta is challenging the preservation order, valued at R10m and wants to have it set aside. He
 denied that he unduly benefited from the Estina dairy farm project, but
 added that he has not had an opportunity to read the papers. "The affidavit is prepared in extreme haste as I was only able to give factual instructions on February 7," he said. Gupta also submitted that he did not take issue with the order pertaining to the preservation of immovable property. He restricted his challenge to the amount of R220m. The
 NPA seized control of a dairy farm in the Free State, Gupta's bank 
accounts, companies co-owned by Duduzane Zuma and other entities in the 
Gupta empire. READ: NPA freezes R220m, land linked to Gupta farm The Free State High Court in January put the Krynaauwslust farm near Vrede in the Free State under curatorship. News24
 reported that the order reveals that the Free State's agricultural 
department - under then agriculture MEC Mosebenzi Zwane - paid R220m to 
the Guptas in what the AFU calls a "scheme designed to defraud and steal
 monies from the department". Gupta believes AFU financial 
investigator Nkosiphendule Mradla and Abrahams have not demonstrated 
that any portion of the R220m paid to Estina was transferred to his 
account. "I categorically deny any such transfer into any bank 
account owned or operated by me. Accordingly, the order could not have 
been granted on the paper before the honourable judge... It is clear 
that the order ought to be set aside," his affidavit states. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  