People queue to collect water from a natural spring outlet at South African Breweries. (AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Day Zero, the day residents may have to start queueing for water, is expected to move out to mid-May 2018 due to a decline in agricultural usage, deputy mayor Ian Neilson said in a statement on Monday. However, he urged Capetonians to continue reducing consumption to avoid Day Zero. "There has not been any significant decline in urban usage. All Capetonians must therefore continue to use no more than 50 litres per person per day to help stretch our dwindling supplies," said Neilson. Day Zero is based on the previous week's daily consumption average of 547Ml/day. This is 97ml above the target of 450Ml. The latest data from the City of Cape Town indicate that the City's progress in securing alternative water sources is at 62%. However, from the seven projects which includes desalination, ground and recycled water, only one project - the V&A Waterfront desalination project is on schedule. The combined level of dams supplying the city is at 25.5% - down 0.8% from last week. READ: City of Cape Town confident about safety of desalination plants Neilson said that many of the agricultural users in the
Western Cape Supply System, where the City also draws its water from, have used
up the water allocated to them as per agreement with the National Department of
Water and Sanitation. “Agricultural usage is therefore likely to drop
significantly over the next weeks. Currently, the agriculture sector is drawing
about 30% of the water in the supply scheme. This should fall to approximately
15% in March and 10% in April,” he explained. “It must be noted that the City does not have any control
over agricultural releases, so this is the best estimate we can make with the
information at hand.” Neilson said emphasised that residents need to get
consumption down to 450Ml per day to prevent the remaining water supplies
running out before the arrival of winter rains. “We cannot accurately predict the volume of rainfall still
to come, or when it will come.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  