Andile Sithole Naked wire cables are connected to a power box on Scindian Road, Belvedere.PHOTO:andile sithole Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A MAN (61) died after he was electrocuted by illegal electricity cables in Belvedere on Tuesday, February 13. It is suspected that Runganathan Govender was walking along the path near Saunders Circle searching for syringa berry leaves when he was electrocuted. According to residents at the scene, the victim fell on a wire that was connected to a power box and was electrocuted. A neighbour, who did not want to be named, told the Weekly that illegal connections in Belvedere have been going on for many years. “The municipality needs to remove the power box where illegal wires are connected. This is not the first incident to happen in Belvedere. When the power goes off due to illegal connections, we are affected. Our electrical appliances are damaged. The municipality must remove the power box and make sure that no one has access to it,” he said. Head of Reaction Unit South Africa Prem Balram, said paramedics were called out to the scene by the public. Balram said when paramedics arrived at the scene the victim was lying on the ground and showed no signs of life. According to a statement from eThekwini Municipality, cable and electricity theft cost the municipality more than R230 million annually. Ward councillor Dolly Munien said illegal connections are costing the municipality millions to repair the damaged power boxes. “The municipality is in the process of supplying electricity to all households in Gwala’s Farm. I contacted eThekwini Municipality to disconnect the illegal cables from the power box,” Munien said. Munien expressed her condolences to the family of the deceased. Acting SAPS spokesperson in Tongaat, Warrant Officer Manisha Maharaj-Marie, confirmed the incident. “The SAPS constantly set ups [illegal] electricity [raid] operations with the municipality and Eskom. However, these are reconnected on the same day. We urge the community to refrain from stealing electricity. The public needs to be extra careful about naked wires. Police have opened an inquest docket,” she said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  