Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Conakry -  Authorities in Guinea announced the first death from Lassa fever in more than two decades on Thursday, heightening anxiety about another hemorrhagic fever in the West African country where an Ebola epidemic first emerged. The Ebola outbreak in late 2013 went on to kill more than 11 000 people in part because local authorities and the international community were slow to act when cases first popped up in a rural part of the deeply impoverished nation. In a government statement, health authorities confirmed that at least one person was dead and more than two dozen others had been monitored for possible symptoms. However, critics questioned why the government was only now making the news public when the victim died January 11. Further complicating the situation was the fact that the Guinean citizen died across the border in Liberia - the same way that Ebola initially spread. Authorities, though, said there was nothing to fear. "None of the patient's contacts in Liberia became sick or tested positive for Lassa," the statement said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. There is no approved vaccine for Lassa fever, whose symptoms are similar to Ebola. After starting as a fever with aches and pains it can progress to headache, vomiting and diarrhea. According to the World Health Organisation, severe cases can cause victims to bleed from the mouth and nose. Like Ebola, Lassa fever can be spread through contact with the bodily fluids of sick people. Humans also can contract it from eating food that has been tainted by the urine or feces of rodents. Dr Sakoba Keita, who coordinated Guinea's national response to the Ebola outbreak from 2014-2016, told private radio station Espace FM that the new Lassa fever case was the country's first known one since 1996. The disease, however, has long existed in West Africa. Nigerian authorities have reported more than 440 suspected cases throughout the country so far this year, according to the non-governmental organisation known as ALIMA. At least 40 people are believed to have died from Lassa fever there.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  