Newly-elected President Cyril Ramaphosa has delivered his first State of the Nation Address (SONA). Jump to
                    bottom This is the Hugh Masekela song President Cyril Ramaphosa quoted at SONA 2018 Twitter was ablaze with emotion after newly-elected President Cyril Ramaphosa quoted a Hugh Masekela song during the State of the Nation Address (SONA). EFF shouts 'Ace!' as Ramaphosa vows to tackle corruption ANC secretary general and Free State Premier Ace Magashule became the centre of attention – just for a moment – during President Cyril Ramaphosa's maiden State of the Nation Address (SONA) - and it wasn't for a good reason. IN DEPTH: Ramaphosa's 10-point plan to revive SA's economy President Cyril Ramaphosa unveiled the recovery plan to set South Africa on a new growth path, which involves forming a social pact with different social partners. Delivering his maiden State of the Nation Address on Friday evening, Ramaphosa announced the appointment of a Presidential Economic Advisory Council. The council will draw on the expertise of those in labour, business, civil society and academia, to ensure the implementation of economic policy and to respond better to economic circumstances. IN DEPTH: Ramaphosa sounds warning to SOE boards “We will intervene decisively to stabilise and revitalise state owned enterprises,” promised new SA President Cyril Ramaphosa during his maiden State of the Nation Address in Parliament on Friday. What SA's newly-elected head of state would say about the country's state companies, many of which stand accused of poor performance, maladministartion and a reliance of government bailouts, was among the most anticipated aspects of his speech. IN DEPTH: We're going ahead with land expropriation without compensation, says Ramaphosa SA’s new president said that his administration would be continuing with a policy of land expropriation of land without compensation. The decision to expropriate land without compensation was taken by the ANC at its 54th Congress, where Cyril Ramaphosa was elected ANC President. “We will accelerate our land redistribution programme not only to redress a grave historical injustice, but also to bring more producers into the agricultural sector and to make more land available for cultivation,” Ramaphosa said during his maiden State of the Natioan Address in Parliament on Friday evening. He sang: “I
wanna be there when the people start to turn it around When
they triumph over poverty I
wanna be there when the people win the battle against AIDS I
wanna lend a hand I
wanna be there for the alcoholic I
wanna be there for the drug addict I
wanna be there for the victims of violence and abuse I
wanna lend a hand

Send
me.” Jump to
                top