Cape Town – US President Donald Trump took to Twitter on Tuesday to praise the South African-born entrepreneur, Elon Musk, on his successful SpaceX rocket launch. The world's most powerful rocket – the Falcon Heavy rocket, which was built by Musk’s exploration company, SpaceX – blasted off on its journey towards an orbit near Mars on Tuesday. - WATCH: SpaceX launches world's most powerful rocket toward Mars Musk became the chairperson of Tesla – an electric carmaker – in 2004 and it was a Tesla roadster that was sent into orbit from a Cape Canaveral launchpad. He also serves as the chief executive officer and chief technology officer of SpaceX. Trump was delighted with the successful launch, claiming that Musk and SpaceX represent the "best of American ingenuity". Which is quite interesting, given that Musk is originally from a "shithole" country. In January, Trump reportedly referred to Haiti and African countries as "shithole countries". He suggested that the US should not accept immigrants from these countries, but instead welcome immigrants from countries like Norway. The United Nations slammed the comment as "shocking and shameful". Trump later implied that he did not make any such comment or use language of that nature.  Congratulations @ElonMusk and @SpaceX on the successful #FalconHeavy launch. This achievement, along with @NASA’s commercial and international partners, continues to show American ingenuity at its best! pic.twitter.com/eZfLSpyJPK Here are some of the responses to Trump's tweet. Do you know this @ElonMusk you are congratulating comes from a shithole country called South Africa? https://t.co/aQCWz3wo9w  American ingenuity? Isn't Elon Musk from a shithole? ... from a continent Trump specified as not wanting people from. Trump WON’T spend money on:-Health care-The American people-Roads, bridges & tunnels-Renewable energy-Science-Puerto RicoTrump WILL spend money on:-A wall-Grand military parade-Personal vacations-A helicopter pad-Rallies-Paying off pornstarsGot it.#TrumpTreason Erm, he's South African. Shithole ingenuity at its best! #proud Hoping Donald is keen to be the first test human subject to Mars *holding thumbs* ...except that @elonmusk is a Canadian, born in South Africa, but yes @realDonaldTrump ....Merica *dumbass He’s born and schooled in South Africa. Elon musk is South African ???????????? This is odd? Usually you would take complete credit. Ok so this Elon musk is from a shithole country you know? He also dissagreed with your neglect of the climate change, the US skipping the Paris climate accord and he quit your board of advisors... ironic... Erm.... actually that is shithole country technology. Elon is South African. Does @realDonaldTrump even know where South Africa is? Oh yes I forgot: Nambia.... Yeah, thank to a south African. "American Ingenuity"? Let's not get confused here; Elon Musk is from a #shitholecountry sir Elon said he didn’t want to be friends with you anymore because you’re so terrible.  Musk later tweeted his thanks to Trump.  Thank you on behalf of SpaceX. An exciting future lies ahead!   View from SpaceX Launch Control. Apparently, there is a car in orbit around Earth. pic.twitter.com/QljN2VnL1O 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  