Mxolisi Mngadi (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Polokwane – Limpopo police have condemned acts of vigilantism in the province following the murder of two suspected burglars in Apel, outside Lebowakgomo, and the torching of a house of a local mine manager in Maandagshoek village, outside Burgersfort. Both incidents, allegedly perpetrated by residents, happened after 20:00 on Monday, Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said on Tuesday. The alleged burglars were brutally attacked and killed by an unknown group around 20:30, he said. "It is alleged that the unknown, middle-aged men were dropped off by an unknown vehicle a few metres away from the local health centre. They were then taken in and later transferred to hospital for further medical treatment and they were both certified dead on arrival," said Ngoepe. The motive for the attack was not clear but mob justice or vigilantism could not be ruled out, said Ngoepe. The torching of the house and its contents, by an unknown group of residents, took place around 21:00. 'House torched' He said the house - with all its contents - was torched by an unknown group of community members at about 21:00 at Maandagshoek village. "It is alleged the community torched the house of one of the local mine managers and disappeared into darkness," he said. He added that the damage cost an estimated at R800 000. An arson case has been opened, he said. Limpopo provincial commissioner Lieutenant General Nneke Ledwaba has condemned both incidents. "Taking the law into one's own hands is always a serious transgression of the laws of this country, including the community policing principles and as such, it must be condemned [in] the strongest possible terms," he said. He added that the "senseless and barbaric acts" which are still taking place in some parts of Limpopo must stop abruptly in the spirit of partnership policing and community policing. "For those who are still closing their ears, the police are going to deal with them mercilessly and without compromise," concluded Ledwaba. Ngoepe asked anyone with information which can lead to an arrest or the identification of the deceased to contact Captain Richard Boshomane on 079 894 5501.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  