Alex Mitchley and Mxolisi Mngadi Pretoria
- The South African National Civic Organisation (SANCO) has condemned the
latest torching of a secondary school in Vuwani, Limpopo saying that the
destruction of public infrastructure investments in the area continues to
reverse development in the area. Police confirmed that the
administration block of a school in Lwamondo village in Vuwani had been set
alight causing about R1.2m worth of damage in the early hours of Friday
morning. Four computers, printers, safe,
steel cabinet and all the administration block's padlocks at Shondoni Secondary
School were destroyed in the fire, said Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo. "The total value of all
items damaged including the building itself is estimated to be around R1.2
million," Mojapelo said. He said when police arrived at the
scene, the administration block was already gutted by the fire. The motive for the incident is
unknown at this stage but police investigations continue, he said. SANCO has condemned the attack on the school and called for a
comprehensive intervention plan to end the destruction
of public properties in Vuwani. “It is treacherous that
destruction of public infrastructure investments in the area continues to
reverse development aimed at bridging the urban-rural
divide and the provision of quality public education," said SANCO National
Spokesperson, Jabu Mahlangu. Mahlangu said the perpetrators of
the senseless destruction of public properties must be unmasked and severely
punished for atrocities that are denying rural communities development. “Education is the greatest
equaliser to reverse the legacy of apartheid deprivation, those who deprive our
historically marginalised communities ownership of quality infrastructure that
will improve their lives are anti-development  agents that have no place
in our society.” “The senseless destruction of
property in the impoverished area will deepen poverty, unemployment and
inequality.” He added that the deployment of
security personnel to protect public infrastructure in Vuwani is long overdue.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  