Correspondent Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg
- A man who pretended to be a Johannesburg Water employee in order to extort
money from those owing on water bills, has been arrested, the City's mayor
Herman Mashaba said on Sunday. "The suspect, who calls
himself Brian, has been operating for quite some time and extorting monies from
residents whose water bills was in arrears in places like Brixton, Westdene,
Auckland Park, Sophiatown, Bosmont, Riverlea, Westbury and Newlands," the
mayor said in a statement. "He reconnected water supply
to houses that were cut off after being paid by the residents." However, the City's Group Forensic and Investigation Service (GFIS) was able
to turn his latest attempt at extortion into a sting operation, in
collaboration with the Hawks, in order to bring him down. The man allegedly approached the
chairperson of a sectional title building – used for students housing – which
had had its services cut off due to late or non-payment. "Late last year, the suspect
allegedly approached the resident and indicated that if he received R4500, the
water supply would be reconnected. The resident subsequently paid the
amount." The man then told the chairperson
that it would cost a further R15000 to R20000 to organise a payment arrangement
with the City. "He suggested that the
resident pays him R1500 monthly to avoid further cut offs." Further to that, last week, the
chairperson was contacted on his cellphone by 'Brian' who said that the water
meter had been removed from the property
due to a discrepancy on its serial number. "He allegedly requested
R3000 to prevent the meter from being removed. He was allegedly paid R1000
early last week and told to collect R2000 on Friday." The chairperson then approached
authorities and the Hawks set up the sting operation. "An arrangement was made to
meet with the suspect at KFC in Sophiatown. The suspect arrived to collect the
money and was arrested as he was leaving the complex with the R2000." Mashaba said he commended the
resident "who said enough is enough and reported the matter". The arrested man will appear in
the Johannesburg Commercial Crimes Court on Monday.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  