Christina Pitt Gabriela Kabrins Alban. (Picture: Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – The Western Cape High Court reeled in shock on Thursday when murder accused Diego Novella testified to defecating on Gabriela Kabrins Alban after strangling her. The Guatemalan said that he was defending himself against an attack by a "demonic entity", who was, in fact, Kabrins Alban. "When I was on top of the entity, I strangled it because it attacked me," he told the court. Novella had previously testified that Kabrins Alban had scratched and bitten him on the chest and arm. ALSO READ: Novella trial witness breaks down over 'broken system' "I hit it on the face because I was fighting against an entity." He explained that after he hit the "entity" it stopped moving and he assumed it was dead. 'I didn't do it consciously' Novella struggled to keep eye contact with Judge Vincent Saldanha as he testified further. "I defecated on the entity," he said. "I was walking inside the room and I remembered to place a T-shirt on top of it." Novella then testified that he placed a piece of paper on the body with the word "cerote", which means "piece of sh*t" in Spanish, written on it. "When I say I wrote it, it was my hand that wrote it. I didn't do it consciously," said Novella. His testimony confirmed some of the findings in the pathologist's report. Chips, sweets and chocolates on body Pathologist Itumeleng Molefe testified that Kabrins Alban's body was found half-naked with hair extensions between her legs. A hair straightening iron was also found close to her genitalia. Novella, however, claimed that he inexplicably placed a hair dryer between Alban's legs. Chips, sweets and chocolates were also strewn over the body. READ: PS chocolate bar left on murdered woman's thigh He confirmed that he threw chips on Kabrins Alban's body, but could not recall placing other foodstuffs on her. Novella is accused of murdering the US sales executive at a Camps Bay hotel on July 29, 2015. The trial was postponed to Monday, February 19 after Novella told the court that he was "emotionally drained" and was not in the capacity to continue testifying. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  