First lady Thobeka Madiba-Zuma with President Jacob Zuma. (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Sources reveal that President Jacob Zuma and ANC president Ramaphosa will conclude talks within 48 hours; regulations for the state capture inquiry has been released by Zuma; and what happened to Estina’s missing cows? Here are today's top stories: Zuma, Ramaphosa to 'conclude' talks in 48 hours – sources President Jacob Zuma and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa will "conclude" their discussion on Zuma’s exit as head of state within the next 48 hours, after which the outcome will be announced to the nation, News24 has reliably been told. Zuma releases state capture inquiry regulations President Jacob Zuma on Friday released the regulations for the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, Justice Minister Michael Masutha said. De Lille hires Dali Mpofu as she takes on DA's 'backroom boys' for secret ballot Embattled Cape Town Mayor Patricia De Lille has appointed Dali Mpofu SC to represent her in her court bid to force the "backroom boys" of the DA to allow a motion of no confidence in her to take place by secret ballot. All hell is about to break loose, Zuma's wife warns President Jacob Zuma's wife Tobeka Madiba-Zuma whose husband's future in the Presidency is uncertain, on Friday finally broke her silence, warning that all hell was about to break loose. Sizwe liked dancing, Jeremiah enjoyed birthdays – advocate gives human face to forgotten Life Esidimeni victims Parents, siblings and children of the victims wept as Advocate Adila Hassim read out the names of 63 people who died in the Life Esidimeni tragedy. The Public Protector (PP) has quietly released a report on the Vrede dairy project in the Free State, highlighting procurement irregularities, "gross negligence" and maladministration related to the controversial project.  BCCSA rules in favour of Jackson Mthembu against ANN7 The Broadcasting Complaints Commission of South Africa (BCCSA) has ruled against Africa News Network 7 (ANN7) following a complaint by ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu in November 2017. Where are Estina's missing cows? Investigators probing the Estina dairy farm scandal may search for the controversial project's missing cattle until the cows come home. ‘Frustrated’ dad admits to beating his baby to death A four-month-old baby was punched and slapped until he lost consciousness and died – because his crying and "fussiness" had frustrated his dad. Marx the big winner at SA Rugby awards Springbok hooker Malcolm Marx was rewarded with three awards following a sublime season in 2017, including being named the SA Rugby Player of the Year. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  