Siphelele Nketo PHOTO: siphelele nketoAt the awards’ function are (from left) Matatiele Municipality ANC chief whip Sonwabile Mngenela, Zolile Sanqela from Sadtu and King Edward High mathematics teacher Matthew Thomas. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ALFRED Nzo District Municipality awarded teachers and pupils for their outstanding performance in last year’s matric results. A matric pass rate of 67,3% was celebrated at the awards’ ceremony at the Maluti Civic Centre last Friday. Pupils who performed well in mathematics, physical science and accounting were awarded certificates and a trophy. Mathematics teacher Matthew Thomas from King Edward High was among the teachers awarded for their exceptional performance. Lungelo Mthatyana, Alfred Nzo West District director from the Department of Education (DoE), said 4 125 matriculants passed in the district, 1 249 passed with a Bachelor pass and 1 719 passed with diploma endorsement. He thanked teachers who worked hard and said the district had no school that performed bellow 10%. Giving the state of the district address, Mthatyana said that he is pleased by the performance of King Edward High and Mount Frere Community School, which got 100%, Focused High got 96,3% and Zinyosini Senior Secondary got 96,2%. He said Osborn High received 94,3% and had a large number of matriculants who wrote exams compared to other schools. He said 200 pupils passed and the remaining 12 failed at Osborn High. “Zwelakhe Senior Secondary also had a large number of matriculants who wrote exams, 107 passed, 43 failed and the school received 93%. Pupils of Lindelani Senior Secondary protested and threatened to boycott exams last year and I am happy to announce that the school received 89,9%,” said Mthatyane. He called on Grade 1 teachers to work hard because there are many pupils who failed last year. The South African Democratic Teachers Union and National Teachers Union congratulated the schools for their outstanding performance and called on the government to respond to challenges faced by schools. Alfred Nzo District Municipality Mayor Sixolile Mehlomakhulu said the municipality has helped a number of pupils to further their studies at tertiary institutions. He called on parents and community leaders to play a meaningful role in schools. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  