Iavan Pijoos and Bombi Mavundza Johannesburg – Oliva Makete, who is still in pain after being assaulted while in the vicinity of the "Hands Off Zuma" march outside the ANC headquarters this week, says she hopes her attacker will spend many years in jail. ANC branch secretary Thabiso Setona was captured on camera on Monday as he kicked her. The video was broadcast on national television and circulated on social media. When News24 phoned the family on Wednesday, Olivia was at the clinic with her husband Robert, so she could be assessed. "My body hurts from the waist to my leg. I was told by the police to get a medical report," she said.The 52-year-old had submitted her statement of the attack to the Johannesburg Central police station on Tuesday. "We will wait when we go to court, what happens to him. We don't know if we will get justice, but we want him to get 15 years in jail," she said. Her husband added: "I watched helplessly how my wife was beaten. You don't kick a woman and you don't beat a woman." "My heart is sore, because my wife is in pain,"Makete said.   Setona has since handed himself over to police and has been suspended by the ANC. Read: ANC suspends man who assaulted woman at #LuthuliHouse march Both Makete and his wife are unemployed and have two children together. Olivia said she had not been at Luthuli House to protest in support of Zuma. She said they went to Luthuli House to hand over a memorandum about service delivery because they lacked water, electricity and houses at Orange Farm Extension 10. "We didn't go there [Luthuli House] to fight, we went there for our basic services," she said.  Read: ANC member caught assaulting female marcher to appear in court Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed Olivia submitted her statement at the Johannesburg Central police station on Tuesday. "We have her statement, now we will investigate medical reports and speak to witnesses. We will then return the docket to the Johannesburg Central police station," Dlamini said. Once the case has been finalised, the National Prosecuting Authority will decide whether or not to prosecute, Dlamini said. Despite the sadness and agony of the ordeal, Olivia remains hopeful that justice will prevail. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  