Amanda Khoza Controversial businessman Nafiz Modack. (Caryn Dolley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – Courtroom 1 at the Wynberg Regional Court in Johannesburg was heavily guarded by the police on Monday when suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack and co-accused Jacques Cronje made a brief appearance. Heavily-armed police were stationed at all the entrances of the half-empty court as proceedings got under way. Modack and Cronje have been charged with extorting and intimidating those running The Grand night club in Sandton. The case was postponed to Thursday for a bail hearing. The two men appeared calm as they made their way from the holding cells to the dock. Prosecutor Ayanda Bakana told Magistrate Gideon Schnetler that both parties had agreed to postpone the matter. Modack's lawyer, Johan Eksteen, told the court that he was concerned about his client's well-being in the holding cells. "As you know, my client was brought from Cape Town and taken to Sandton and there the cells do not have halaal food. Arrangements have been made for his family to bring him food, but that was declined and he was told that, if he does not want to eat, then he must starve," said Eksteen. Also read: Modack co-accused complain of rodents, fleas in jail cells The magistrate quickly told Eksteen that Modack would be taken to Johannesburg prison and prison authorities should be able to provide Modack with the necessary meals. Cronje's lawyer, Rooshdeen Rudolph, complained about the State not handing over the necessary documents to the defence so that they can proceed with the bail application. The magistrate urged the State to assist the defence with the documents. Modack and Cronje face similar charges in Cape Town along with Carl Lakay, Ashley Fields and Colin Booysen - the brother of alleged Sexy Boys gang boss Jerome Booysen. The charges they face relate to allegations of a nightclub security takeover. This group was arrested in Cape Town on December 15 and lodged a bail application shortly afterwards. They are expected to find out whether or not they will be granted bail on February 28, 2018. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  