Zeldré Strauss Swanepoel Ward Councillor Gustav Rautenbach next to the river where water is allegedly being extracted illegally. The tyre tracks from heavy vehicles can be seen on the ground. Photo:ZELDRÉ STRAUSS SWANEPOEL Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories WATER in the metro’s rivers and streams are not for the taking. A stern warning is sent out to individuals who are extracting water from the Baakens River next to Kragga Kamma Road, reportedly to sell to swimming pool owners. Extracting water from any river or stream within the bounds of the municipality without a permit is illegal. According to Ward 8 Councillor Gustav Rautenbach, there are residents who have seen heavy vehicles allegedly extracting water from the Baakens River. “I want these perpetrators to know that the residents of the area are keeping an eye on them. “We have photographic evidence which was handed over to the metro police and they are investigating the matter,” Rautenbach said. Rautenbach urged those who need non-potable water for domestic use to make use of the Motherwell groundwater collection point and the Fishwater Flats Wastewater Treatment works in John Tallant Road. These points provide non-drinkable water for residents and businesses to use for construction, filling of swimming pools and car washing. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality spokesperson Mthubanzi Mniki said the NMBM condemns the act of extracting water from the Baakens River. “We call upon those who have info about these acts to report it to 0800 205050 so that the culprits can be brought to book.” Mniki added that anyone who wishes to extract water from natural bodies need a permit that should be obtained from the Department of Water Affairs. Failure to have such a permit could result in prosecution in accordance with the National Water Act 36 of 1998. Permits, however, will not be issued for domestic use. Residents with boreholes should also note that the selling of water from these sources is prohibited. “All boreholes should also be registered with the municipality,” Mniki said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  