'Angry and bitter' Mugabe says Mnangagwa 'must apologise' – report Harare - A bitter Robert Mugabe says new President Emmerson
Mnangagwa and his allies should apologise for last year’s military operation
that ousted him from power – and he doesn't think Zanu-PF will win this year's
polls. Mugabe made the comments at a private party held for him on
Saturday at his Harare mansion to celebrate his 94th birthday. "They must accept and apologise that what they did was
wrong," the private Standard newspaper quoted Mugabe as telling
guests, who included ex-members of Mugabe’s former cabinet. For more on this story click here Mugabe's fashion designer son Robert jnr says his mom
Grace inspires him - report Harare – Zimbabwean former president Robert Mugabe's
son, who launched a clothing label last December, has reportedly said that his
parents "do not want him to have it easy in his new line of
business", adding that his mother, former first lady Grace Mugabe is
his "inspiration". Robert Mugabe
Junior’s clothing label xGx was launched in Johannesburg just
weeks after the nonagenarian's fall from power. Robert said at the time of the launch that he hoped that his
label would be "competitive on the international scene". According to Daily
News, Robert told a South African radio station, Massive Metro,
recently that he had always wanted to "create and design", and in
December he "made it happen". Read more on this story here At least 2 killed during weekend protests in DRC Kinshasa - Two people were killed during weekend marches in
the Democratic Republic of Congo calling for President Joseph Kabila to step
down, the latest of several demonstrations forcefully put down by authorities. Bishop Donatien Nshole, whose organisation supported the
rallies, told AFP one man was killed in the capital Kinshasa and another died
when he was shot by a guard in the northwestern city of Mbandaka during
Sunday's rallies. The head of the UN's DRC mission Leila Zerrougui said in a
statement she "regrets that at least two people were killed... despite
instructions given to security forces to show restraint." For more on this story click here Students too scared to return to Nigeria school after
attack Lagos - Frightened students are staying away from the school
in northern Nigeria where Boko Haram extremists seized 110 girls in a raid a
week ago. The Government Girls Science and Technical College in Dapchi
in Yobe state had been closed following the attack that reminded many of Boko
Haram's kidnapping of 276 girls from a boarding school in Chibok in 2014. Teachers resumed classes on Monday, a day after Nigeria's
government for the first time acknowledged the number of girls missing, but
students were absent. Read more on this story here PICS: Mugabe had a 'hero's' birthday party... and Grace doesn't look that sad Harare - Hang on, didn't Zimbabwe's ex-president Robert Mugabe just tell an Africa Union chief he didn't feel safe and that his wife Grace was in tears every day? These pics from Mugabe's glitzy private 94th birthday party in Harare over the weekend certainly don't make the former first couple look that unhappy. Taken from Mugabe's nephew Patrick Zhuwao's Facebook page, they show Grace Mugabe in a sweeping red evening dress. She and her husband clasp hands in front of an imposing doorway flanked by their three children (including daughter Bona, who's reportedly just given birth to her second child). For more on this story click here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  