Lizeka Tandwa President Vladimir Putin of Russia. (AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - The Russian embassy has gone onto social media to express its "disappointment" with Tuesday night's reportage by news broadcaster eNCA that President Jacob Zuma was meeting its leader Vladimir Putin. eNCA reported on a fake statement, which had been distributed on WhatsApp, that Putin would be visiting the country to meet with Zuma. Minutes later, the news broadcaster apologised for the report, labelling it fake news. In its statement, eNCA said: "The earlier report that Russian President Vladimir Putin would be visiting South Africa is not true. eNCA apologises for error." While the Russian embassy said it recognised editor-in-chief Ngiphiwe Mhlangu's immediate correction, it added that "verification of news beforehand is vital". In its tweet, the Russian embassy said that eNCA had not even attempted to contact the embassy for clarification. The Presidency said it had issued no such statement. "The circulating statement is fake and is a fabrication," presidential spokesperson Dr Bongani Ngqulunga said. Media Monitoring Africa director William Bird defended eNCA, saying that its apology was legitimate. Bird said that, with the current news frenzy, newsrooms were under "enormous pressure". "Whenever there is a big news story and uncertainty, people look for current and breaking news... There is an expectation from the audience to get on to the next thing and this creates pressure on journalists to break stories. That kind of environment is prone to making mistakes." Bird, however, said alarm bells should have rung, as the statement had spelling mistakes. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa and the party's top six have had several meetings in an attempt to convince a defiant Zuma to step down. On Tuesday afternoon, National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete announced that the State of the Nation Address, which Zuma was scheduled to deliver, had been postponed. The postponement followed hours of deliberation with party chief whips. Zuma released a statement in which he said that he had also planned to postpone SONA amid the political uncertainty.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  