'Betrayed and abandoned' Mugabe says sorry to sacked VP Harare - President Robert Mugabe has met with Joice Mujuru, the deputy president he sacked four years ago, and apologised for chasing her out of the ruling party, reports said on Friday. The soon-to-be 94-year-old met Mujuru at his Harare mansion this week and asked for her forgiveness, Mujuru’s spokesperson told a private newspaper. "They met and it was at Mugabe's invitation. One of the reasons was to say sorry for everything that happened," Gift Nyandoro told the private NewsDay. Read more on this story here 'This is what we've been waiting for,' Zim white farmers say as they welcome new land policy Harare - Zimbabwe's remaining white farmers will now get 99-year land leases according to a new government policy that marks a dramatic change from widespread evictions of whites from farms. President Emmerson Mnangagwa is breaking away from the seizure of thousands of white-owned farms carried out by his predecessor and mentor Robert Mugabe, who resigned in November under military pressure. The new policy will give remaining white farmers new security from expropriations. The lands ministry has instructed its provincial officers that the policy should be implemented "with immediate effect," according to a copy of the directive seen by The Associated Press. Read more on this story here Ex-VP Mujuru 'was hit on the cheek with a stone by Zanu-PF activist': Spokesperson Harare - A Zimbabwean opposition leader and her entourage were Thursday attacked with stones by suspected ruling party activists in Harare, her party said. Joice Mujuru, a former vice president of the country who is now leader of the National People's Party (NPP), and her supporters were pelted while on the campaign trail. Zimbabwe is due to hold general elections before July - the first polls since independence hero Robert Mugabe was ousted after 37 years in power. Mujuru is one of the prominent contenders. For more on this story click here Kenya opposition firebrand arrested in dawn raid Nairobi - Kenyan police on Friday arrested an outspoken member of the opposition, Miguna Miguna, in a dawn raid on his Nairobi home, police and his party said. Armed officers used explosives to break down the door before arresting Miguna, a witness said. "There were several blasts heard at his home before he was finally taken out," said a neighbour who did not want to be named. For more on this story click here Zim appoints new electoral body chief ahead of crunch polls – report Harare – Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly appointed Justice Priscilla Chigumba as the country's new electoral body chief, a few months before the country holds its first election following ex-president Robert Mugabe's exit. The state-owned Herald newspaper reported that Chigumba was sworn in as Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) chairperson on Thursday in the capital Harare. She took over from Justice Rita Makarau who resigned in December. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  