Amanda Khoza Mandy Rossouw (File, City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories EFF leader Julius Malema said former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu shouldn't be the only person to get the lion's share of the blame for the Life Esidimeni tragedy.WATCH Johannesburg - Celebrating two powerful women who spoke out against corruption, Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Thursday saluted former Democratic Alliance parliamentary leader, Lindiwe Mazibuko, and the late respected journalist, Mandy Rossouw. Speaking at a press conference, following former president Jacob Zuma's resignation on Wednesday night, Malema said Mazibuko should be given credit for fighting against corruption. "We cannot overlook the achievement of an African woman, even if she comes from a different party. I have apologised to her personally for calling her names in defence of Jacob Zuma." Malema admitted that he realised later that he was wrong about Mazibuko. "I came to realise later that she was correct. She is my sister, I respect her for having defended our country. We came and took the baton from her after the white party used her and dumped her." Malema then took a moment to remember Rossouw, who exposed the Nkandla debacle. "That is why we salute Mandy Rossouw, because this was possible through progressive journalists who do not succumb to brown envelopes. "It is the exemplary leadership of Mandy Rossouw, from Mail and Guardian, that should inspire journalists going forward. Journalists should not take sides, journalists should not succumb to the pressures of those who are in authority." Malema said journalists should always report objectively, without being biased. He said, now that white monopoly capital was in power, journalists would be tested. "Many of you belong to white monopoly capital [media houses] so we are saying, if you feel like surrendering to the pressures of your bosses and the powers that be, remember Mandy Rossouw. Let her spirit inspire you and report fearlessly and objectively," said Malema. Rossouw died in 2013. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  