Jana Van Der Merwe Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The brother of Marietjie Vosloo – the woman from Margate in KwaZulu-Natal who’s currently on trial in Mauritius regarding the untimely death of her stepdaughter Mundolene Vosloo (17) – says he only wishes he could be there for his sister. “I just want to see Marietjie again – one doesn’t know what could happen to her. Just think how happy she’d be if her two brothers could be there for her in her darkest moment? “After not having seen her in more than a year . . . I’d hold her hand and pray with her, and try to give her courage. I’d try to make up for lost time with her, just to show her how very much we love her,” Marietjie’s brother Jan Jacobs (43), from Springs in Gauteng, told YOU. Marietjie appeared in court again the past week. The trial has been postponed to Monday 5 February, says Zaredhin Jaunbaccus, her legal counsel, in an email from Mauritius on Wednesday. He didn’t answer YOU’s question about on which day she appeared in court this week and how many witnesses had been called. He simply confirmed the trial is going ahead. The trial, which only started in December, was only set to continue this past Wednesday but according to her estranged husband and Mundolene’s father, Mike Vosloo (47), she’d already appeared in court on 22 January. Marietjie has been charged with assault without murderous intent – similar to a charge of manslaughter in the South African judicial system. Mundolene died on 6 October 2016 after she and Marietjie had an argument at the Hotel Riu Creole. Marietjie had allegedly punched the teenager. The autopsy indicated that Mundolene had died of a stroke and brain bleed, the result of blunt force trauma to the head. The first day of a dream holiday for the family turned into tragedy with the teen’s death. Mundolene and her 15-year-old brother, both from Mike’s first marriage, Mike and Marietjie and the couple’s 12-year-old son had been on holiday together. Marietjie has been in police custody in Mauritius since Mundolene’s death. If found guilty, she faces a possible prison sentence and her brothers are unsure when or if they’ll ever get to see her again. Jan and their younger brother, Bertie Jacobs (37), also from Springs, are Marietjie’s only surviving family members, but they can’t afford to travel to Mauritius to support their sister during her trial. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  