Tsvangirai 'critically ill' in SA... his condition 'has deteriorated rapidly' – reports Cape Town – Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, 65, is reported to be "seriously ill" in a South African hospital after his "condition deteriorated rapidly" on Monday. A Reuters report quoted a source from Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) as saying on Tuesday that the veteran opposition leader was "critically ill", adding that his supporters should "brace for the worst". Tsvangirai, a former prime minister, announced in 2016 that he had been diagnosed with colon cancer and had begun chemotherapy. For more on this story click here Mugabe's nephew says new party 'not an avenue to bring back' his toppled uncle Harare – Former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe's nephew, Patrick Zhuwao, has reportedly said that the latest political outfit, New Patriotic Front (NPF), "is not an avenue to bring back" his ousted uncle. Reports over the weekend indicated that members of the Zanu-PF faction, Generation 40 (G40) that was loyal to former first lady Grace Mugabe were about to launch a new party in Zimbabwe. In documents circulated on social media the party, the NPF, accused the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the African Union (AU) of "dereliction of duty" for failing to condemn the military takeover that removed Mugabe from power last year. Read more on this story here Graft: Zim VP rubbishes claims govt is targeting Grace Mugabe allies Harare – Zimbabwe's vice president Kembo Mohadi has rubbished claims that the ongoing crusade against corruption is targeting former first lady Grace Mugabe's allies, a report says. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Mohadi denied that there was a witch-hunt against perceived President Emmerson Mnangagwa's enemies. Read more on this story here Zim white farmers 'against SA farmers moving into the country' – report Harare - A Zimbabwean farmers union has reportedly called on the government to protect local farmers, saying that it is against farmers from South Africa who want to cross the border and gain from the country's agricultural opportunities. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the Commercial Farmers Union of Zimbabwe (CFU) director, Ben Gilpin, said that his union would "discourage" farmers from South Africa coming to the southern African country, as they preferred the opportunities be given to the union members. Gilpin said that the union preferred that priority be given to CFU members under a new government policy which extended land leases to at least 99-years. For more on this story click here Somali court sentences man to death for October bombing Mogadishu - A Somali military court on Tuesday sentenced a man to death in connection with the October bombing in the capital that killed more than 500 people. The truck bomb was the most powerful blast ever witnessed in Mogadishu and the deadliest single attack in the Horn of Africa nation. The chief of the military court, General Hassan Ali Shute, said Hassan Aden Isak was found guilty of coordinating the bombing. Read more on this story here Kenyan opposition politician charged over mock inauguration Nairobi - Lawyers are demanding that Kenyan police release a politician who has been charged with witnessing last week's mock inauguration of opposition leader Raila Odinga. Miguna Miguna remains detained despite a court order on Friday for his release. Kenya's government considers Odinga's mock inauguration as the "people's president" treason. Odinga was protesting President Uhuru Kenyatta's election win last year, saying the vote was rigged and electoral reforms had not been made. Read more on this story here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  