Teboho Setena Florence Nyakiso-Raisa (left) presented with the coveted Business Woman of the Year award by Prof. Elain Vlok.Photo:Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Elderly woman entrepreneur Florence Nyakiso-Raisa from Botshabelo is reaping the rewards of managing a sustainable small-scale business. She has scooped two coveted business awards for her thriving diverse income generating project. Nyakiso-Raisa (69) has received the Business Woman of the Year and the Ultimate Cleanliness and Hygiene awards. She was announced as the winner at this year’s annual Smarties Week function held in Cape Town on 2 February. “She received the awards because she maintains excellent financial and administration skill. “She continuously finds new ways to save costs and uses her profits to reinvest in all her Clover Mama Afrika projects and ensures that all her equipment is in good operating condition by servicing them regularly at her own cost,” said Prof. Elain Vlok, founder of Clover Mama Afrika. “The Ultimate Cleanliness and Hygiene award is for continuously maintaining a solid infrastructure within her centre to ensure a healthy and safe environment for all members in her care and in the community. “She is celebrated for her financial skills as well as her ability to reinvest in her projects to further develop them. “She is a true inspiration to all. She is living proof that hard work, dedication and being hands-on with everything that you do pays off,” added Vlok. Nyakiso-Raisa has been an active participant in the Clover Mama Afrika project for 14 years. She started with a child­ren’s day-care centre and managed expanding it over the years. Nyakiso-Raisa has esta­blished the venture in Section W. The awards are part of Clover’s community social investment project, rewarding pioneering women. Expansion saw her adding piggery, sewing, bakery, a chicken broiler and welding. “Success has to do with dedication, sharing skills and knowledge. “Knowledge and skills I gained as a domestic worker in Johannesburg back in the 1970’s – I have used that to start the bakery,” delighted Nyakiso-Raisa said. “Most of the people working with me are elders because the youth tend to resist when you advise them and pursue them to get hands-on experiential training, which is basic to starting everything. “They put money first, ahead of experience and knowledge. They believe they are entitled to getting everything free. “I’m one person who is obsessed and passionate about good value. “God has given all hands and a mind to use to achieve good things. Sadly some do the opposite,” said Nyakiso-Raisa. Through the project she provides employment for 28 people – 18 women and 10 men – mostly elders. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  