Tensions 'intensify' between Mnangagwa and army
commanders - report Harare – Tensions are reportedly "intensifying"
between Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa and the "military clique
surrounding him". According to The
Zimbabwe Independentnewspaper, senior government sources indicated last
week that military elements within the ruling Zanu-PF had "serious
political ambitions". It was believed that they wanted Mnangagwa to serve
one term - if he won the upcoming elections - before handing over to his deputy
Constantino Chiwenga. Mnangagwa
appointed Chiwenga, who led the military takeover that helped end
ex-president Robert Mugabe's 37-year rule, as one of the country two vice
presidents in December. Read more on this story here Mugabe 'finally' sends condolence message to Tsvangirai's
family – report Harare – Zimbabwe's ex-president Robert Mugabe has
reportedly "finally broken his silence" and sent a last minute
condolence message to his late rival, opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai's family. According to New
Zimbabwe.com, the message from Mugabe was confirmed by the Movement for
Democratic Change's acting president Nelson Chamisa just before the coffin of
Tsvagirai was lowered into his final resting place in rural Buhera, 220km south
of Harare, on Tuesday. Chamisa said the message was private and could not be read
in public. Read more on this story here Mugabe's nephew 'reacts angrily' as AU supports
Mnangagwa' – report Harare – Zimbabwean ex-president Robert Mugabe's
nephew, Patrick
Zhuwao, has reportedly reacted "angrily" after the African
Union (AU) Commission Chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat praised the
Zimbabwean government for the country's "peaceful political
transition" last year. Mahamat was on a three day visit to Zimbabwe, where he met
with President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who according to the
state-owned Herald
newspaper "apprised him of measures being taken by his
government to ensure free and fair elections". For more on this story click here No lavish birthday celebrations for Mugabe as he turns 94
today – report Harare – Zimbabwe's ex-president Robert Mugabe is reportedly
not going to have his regular extravagant birthday celebrations this year
despite the 21st of February being declared
a public holiday. Born on February 21, 1924, Mugabe trained as a teacher and
taught in what was then Rhodesia and Ghana before returning home to join the
guerrilla war against white-minority rule. He became prime minister after Zimbabwe attained its
independence from Britain in 1980. He later became president in
1987. Read more on this story here Scores of girls 'missing' after new Boko Haram school
attack Kano - Fears grew in northeast Nigeria on Wednesday about
the fate of potentially scores of girls who have not been seen since a Boko
Haram attack on their school two days ago. Militants stormed the Government Girls Science Secondary
School in Dapchi, Yobe state, on Monday evening. Locals initially said the
girls and their teachers fled the attack. The jihadists gained worldwide notoriety in April 2014 when
they abducted 276 girls from their school in Chibok, in neighbouring Borno
state. A total of 112 are still being held. For more on this story click here PICS: Zimbabwe's Mugabe marks 94th birthday in near
solitude Harare - Zimbabwe's former leader Robert Mugabe is
celebrating his first birthday since his resignation in near solitude, far from
the lavish affair of years gone by. The government that removed him with military assistance in
November has declared February 21, Mugabe's birthday, a national holiday. But there are no signs of past celebrations, no giant cakes
or thousands of supporters wearing clothing with Mugabe's image, no live state
television broadcasts. Read more on this story here 'Bitter succession struggle' as Zim bids farewell to
opposition hero Tsvangirai Buhera - Thousands of Zimbabweans gathered Tuesday to bid a
final farewell to opposition veteran Morgan Tsvangirai who was one of Africa's
most admired politicians and lived to see the fall of his political nemesis
Robert Mugabe. "We are celebrating a hero," said the opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party's acting president Nelson Chamisa. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  