Events all over the country are in motion to remove President Jacob Zuma from office and facilitate the leadership transition within the ANC following an urgent marathon meeting by the party's national executive committee. Jump to
                    bottom EFF extends no confidence deadline, chief whips to meet The EFF has extended its deadline to National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete for a decision on the House hearing the motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma to Tuesday at 13:00. Their initial deadline was 10:00, and EFF leader Julius Malema said the party would go to court if this deadline is not met. Shortly after 10:00 the EFF tweeted from its official account: "The Speaker of National Assembly has responded to EFF saying she needs to consult Majority Party Chief Whip & Leader of Government Business; this she can only do so today. EFF has thus extended the deadline to 13h00 for Court action on Motion of No Confidence scheduling this week." The motion is scheduled for February 22, but opposition parties agreed that they want it heard this week. They also said on Monday that they will bring a motion to dissolve the National Assembly once the motion of no confidence is heard.  CONFIRMED: The ANC caucus will meet on Wednesday morning at 10:00, ANC caucus spokesperson Nonceba Mhlauli confirmed on Tuesday morning. This will follow a meeting of the Chief Whips Forum at 08:00. Parliamentary committee meetings have been rescheduled to start at 14:00.  A number of meetings have been reshuffled and scheduled at Parliament tomorrow.  "Motion of no confidence the only way to get rid of Zuma," EFF's Ndlozi tells PowerFM.  A vehicle believed to be for ANC secretary general Ace Magashule arrives at Mahlamba Ndlopfu to apparently meet with President Jacob Zuma. (Pic: Deaan Vivier, Netwerk24) Zuma standoff threatens budget legitimacy - Daniel Silke The extended leadership standoff between Jacob Zuma and the ANC national executive committee now threatens the legitimacy of the budget due on February 21. A budget, if it is to be credible, requires a stable political regime and a fully constituted political process. Should this impasse extend into next week, the forthcoming budget will lose its political credibility. And, given the urgent need to address South Africa's economic plight, this poses renewed worries for investor confidence.  The ANC has also called another special caucus meeting for tomorrow morning.  Ace Magashule is spotted leaving the official presidential residence after meeting with Zuma for over an hour. Magashule and Jessie Duarte reportedly hand-delivered a recall letter from the ANC to Zuma.  Official vehicles have been spotted at President Jacob Zuma's residence in Pretoria, reportedly transporting Ace Magashule and Jessie Duarte who have been tasked with delivering what could possibly be a recall letter to Zuma.  Urgent Chief Whips Forum meeting called at Parliament on Wednesday morning.  ICYMI:  The EFF has shifted its deadline given to Parliament speaker Baleka Mbete.  OPINION: Why Ramaphosa could be reluctant to chop the head off the snake Our politics seem stuck in a twilight zone. As we make every effort to push back Day Zero in the Cape, there's another D-Day that cannot seem to arrive quickly enough. Journalists have been eagerly awaiting news of talks within the ANC, hungry to be the first to break any news of the latest developments around the so-called Zexit. The impatience is rapidly transforming into disdain, as they and the rest of South Africa grow tired of waiting. The man behind it all, newly elected ANC president, deputy president of the Republic and negotiator of note, Cyril Ramaphosa, seems to be in no rush as he takes his time to do things 'right'. It's not for lack of trying but our politics are by nature quite 'unsexy'. It is evolutionary and not revolutionary. Ramaphosa, being one of the founding figures of our regime, fits this mould perfectly, so if we were expecting a gung-ho approach, I'm afraid we've got the wrong guy.  Opposition parties have set a deadline of their own for a response from Parliament speaker Baleka Mbete.  CONFIRMED: The ANC NEC briefing scheduled for 12:00 has now been moved to 14:00, to allow structures within the party to be consulted on the NEC's decision regarding President Jacob Zuma.  Zuma defiant till the end as party moves to recall him A defiant President Jacob Zuma has refused to resign immediately as head of state, daring the ANC's National Executive Committee to recall him. The party's highest decision making body resolved to recall him, invoking the clause in the African National Congress constitution that gives the structure the powers to recall a public representative. The party was expected to write to Zuma on Tuesday morning, informing him of its decision. The ANC NEC held a 13-hour-long marathon meeting in Irene, outside Pretoria. The urgently called meeting, started at 14:00 on Monday and ended at 03:00 on Tuesday. At 23:00, the NEC instructed party President Cyril Ramaphosa and secretary-general Ace Magashule to drive to Zuma's official residence Mahlamba Ndlopfu in Pretoria to give him an ultimatum to resign or face a recall.  President Jacob Zuma's problems were magnified after the ruling of the Constitutional Court that he violated his oath of office. Nkandla judgment explanatory note In a unanimous judgment written by Mogoeng CJ, this Court held that 
the power of the Public Protector to take appropriate remedial action 
has legal effect and is binding. Therefore, neither the President nor 
the National Assembly is entitled to respond to the binding remedial 
action taken by the Public Protector as if it is of no force or effect, 
unless it has been set aside through a proper judicial process. The
 Court thus held that the National Assembly’s resolution, based on the 
Minister’s findings exonerating the President from liability, was 
inconsistent with the Constitution and unlawful. The Court also held 
that, by failing to comply with the Public Protector's order, the 
President failed to “uphold, defend and respect” the Constitution 
because a duty to repay the money was specifically imposed on him 
through the Public Protector’s constitutional power. President Thabo Mbeki's letter of resignation to Cabinet from 2008 (excerpts) I thought I should send you this letter as one of my last communications to you as Head of our country's National Executive. First of all I would like to thank you for having agreed to serve in the National Executive when you were requested to do so. This demonstrated your selfless commitment to serve the people of 
South Africa, which told me that I was indeed very privileged to have 
the possibility to work as part of such a collective of South African 
patriots. ... Surely, as we sought to achieve what Nelson Mandela described as "the
 RDP of the soul", as well as implement the Moral Regeneration 
Programme, we have known that we must lead by example, serving as role 
models in terms of the morality and value system we have urged our 
people to respect! I thank you most sincerely for the comradely manner in which we have 
worked together in the National Executive, the openness of our debates, 
the friendship among ourselves we have enjoyed, and your firm commitment
 to the realisation of the goals which our history and reality have 
dictated. I wish you success in all your future endeavours, convinced that you 
constitute a corps of patriots on whom the masses of our people can 
continue to count as their reliable and selfless leaders, regardless of 
whether you occupy positions in organs of state or you do not. ... I trust that, in time, history will hand down the judgement that when
 we, as our country's National Executive, were given the opportunity, we
 lived up to the expectations of the masses of our long-suffering people
 to serve them as honest and selfless leaders - men and women of 
conscience. Please convey my humble thanks to your families that they released 
you to enable you to perform the outstanding public service for which I 
sincerely thank you. Rand steady on Zuma exit ultimatum The rand held steady in early trade on Monday following the news that the ANC has asked and given President Jacob Zuma an ultimatum to step down. The rand rallied on Monday afternoon on rumours that Zuma had finally caved under pressure and decided to resign. The Presidency rejected this as "fake news". ANC MEDIA ALERT: POST NEC MEDIA BRIEFING Members of the media are invited to a media briefing on the
outcomes of the Special meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of
the African National Congress held yesterday, 12 February 2018. The briefing will be held as follows: Date: Today, 13 February 2018

Time: 12h00 Venue: Chief Albert Luthuli House, Johannesburg The ANC regrets any inconvenience caused by the short
notice. Issued by the African National Congress Studio analysis: What happens next if Zuma resists NEC recall Phephelaphi Dube, director of the Centre for Constitutional Rights and News24 Editor in Chief Adriaan Basson sit down with Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg to analyse possible outcomes of Monday's meeting of the ANC's National Executive Committee Zuma to be recalled after refusing to resign, sources say The ANC national executive committee has decided to recall President Jacob Zuma, sources have said after the NEC's marathon meeting AS IT HAPPENED: ANC NEC resolves to recall Zuma The ANC national executive committee has decided to recall President Jacob Zuma, sources have said after the NEC's marathon meeting.  Jump to
                top