Charlea Sieberhagen-Grey PHOTO: Getty Images/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A
22-year-old man who’d been arrested for the shooting death of a 19-year-old
woman from Broomfield, Colorado, says he’d responded to a Craigslist ad in
which she’d asked for someone to kill her. Natalie
Bollinger’s body was found on 29 December in a wooded area of a dairy farm near
Broomfield, The Daily
Beast reports. Natalie’s
boyfriend had reported her missing the day before. He’d also reported his
firearm stolen. Joseph Michael
Lopez, who works at a local pizza restaurant, was arrested last week in
connection with Natalie’s death. An autopsy
confirmed Natalie died of a single gunshot wound to the head. It also revealed
she had a potentially lethal amount of heroin in her system, The Denver Channel
reported. She had a history of drug abuse. According
to Lopez he saw her advertisement in the personals section of the website
Craigslist in December. It was apparently posted under “Women looking for men”
and the ad said Natalie was looking for someone to kill her. Lopez, posing as a
hitman, contacted Natalie about the ad. CBS News reports Lopez picked Natalie up from her flat
on 28 December. Apparently they’d been communicating through cellphone text
messages for some time before meeting. Lopez maintains he’d been trying to get
her to change her mind but she was adamant she wanted to die. He says she
cited “problems with her boyfriend” as the main reason for her decision. Once
Lopez had picked her up, they drove around for a while, discussing amongst
other things how payment would take place. According
to Lopez, Natalie had given him the gun with which he was to shoot her. Shortly
after his arrest Lopez initially denied shooting the young woman, saying he’d
dropped her off back at her flat. But police, using GPS coordinates, were able
to confirm he’d been present at the crime scene, forcing Lopez to confess he’d
shot her. He added in
his confession that they’d prayed together before he pulled the trigger. Lopez is
still in police custody and the investigation is ongoing, a police spokesperson
told CBS News. Sources: The Daily Beast, The Denver Channel,CBS News 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  