Bongi Mndayi Security guard Bolekwa Kalipa looks as mom Xolelwa and court official Caci Mndayi check on the new baby. Mother and baby Lunathi are fine. PHOTO: unathi obose Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories There was an unexpected drama when a pregnant woman went into labour during a maintenance case at the Khayelitsha Magistrates Court on Thursday. Xoliswa Mandayi,40, who was in court to demand additional papgled, collapsed after a minor squabble with the father of her children. “We had a little quarel and I noticed my sugar levels were rising and then the water broke. I yelled “my baby is coming”,” said Xoliswa. It was after this commotion that alerted court officials to her aid. Seeing they did not have plenty of time for a trip to Khayelitsha Distric Hospital (KDH), the female court officials closed ranks around the mother and removed her underwear to avoid obstructing the delivery. As the baby emerged from the birth canal there were sighs of relief. Court official Caci Mndayi(no relation) said they were shocked but had to be composed as “the mother was in great pain.” They immediately cleared the area, asking men to leave. “After assisting with the delivery, we were relieved. I then rushed to KDH(which is across the street) to call for an ambulance,” said Caci. Court security guard Bolekwa Kalipi who assisted with the birth, said she was scared “and felt like running away.” “I became brave for the coming baby and decided to help the mother,” said Bolekwa. An excited Xolelwa said she was “crying but I stopped when I heard my baby cry as well.” The new born was then named Lunathi by the court officials. “I agreed to the name simply because of the way my baby was born. This is my fourth child and I am happy she is able to have life”, said Xolelwa. She hopes that Lunathi will one day walk the corridors of the court as one of its top magistrates. Xolelwa thanked court officials for assisting her in such a “brave and professional manner though they had never faced a situation like this. I would like to thank the ladies who assisted me during this birth, and may God bless them,” she said as tears of joy rolled down her cheeks. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  