President Jacob Zuma. (GCIS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Here’s how the Cape Town Carnival will not be wasting any water, see three new faces in the Proteas squad for the upcoming T20 and the ANC resolves to recall President Jacob Zuma. Scroll through some of our top stories: Zuma has until the end of today to resign - sources President Jacob Zuma is said to be "angry" and "emotional" about the ANC's insistence that he leaves office immediately. ANC NEC resolves to recall Zuma The ANC national executive committee has decided to recall President Jacob Zuma, sources have said after the NEC's marathon meeting. WATCH: #Zexit | Jacob Zuma, in his own words Jacob Zuma has always had an amusing, and often endearing way with words. On the day of his anticipated recall by the National Executive, we thought it fitting to bring you some of his best lines over the years. &lt;br _moz_dirty="" /&gt; Defence works to undermine State's #VanBreda case Murder-accused Henri van Breda is facing closing arguments in the Western Cape High Court. #DayZero pushed back to June, as drought declared a national disaster Day Zero for Capetonians has now been extended to early June from mid-May, while the government has declared the drought a national disaster. Here's how Cape Town Carnival will not be wasting a drop of water The Cape Town Carnival's 2018 objective is to have zero water impact on the municipal water grid. Twitter reacts to #ZumaRecall: From the funny to the serious The ANC national executive committee announced on Tuesday that they have agreed to recall President Jacob Zuma, following a lengthy meeting on Monday.  Zuma's defiant exit signifies end to 9 of SA's darkest years It is entirely appropriate that Jacob Zuma didn’t leave office in a dignified way, in a way that is in the interest of his party and the country. It defines his nine years in office, writes Max du Preez. Three new faces in Proteas T20 squad Warriors batsman Christiaan Jonker and the Titans duo of fast bowler Junior Dala and wicketkeeper-batsman Heinrich Klaasen are the new caps in the Proteas squad for the three-match T20 series against India later this month. Zim First lady's resignation from parliament 'raises eyebrows' - report Zimbabwean First Lady Auxilia Mnangagwa's resignation from parliament has reportedly received mixed reactions from the country's opposition parties. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  