Det. WO Johannes Masiza and Det. Const. Mmokgo Masilo with the rape suspect. Photo: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The police in Thaba Nchu strongly warn members of the public to avoid walking alone near unoccupied buildings and across vacant land. This is after alleged incidents of robbery and rape that took place in the same area, to which two women fell victim. The first incident was reportedly in January and the second in February. Sgt Martin Xuma, police cluster spokesperson, says criminals lie in wait at vacant buildings and land, with the aim of preying on victims. He says the two women had allegedly been robbed on their way to crossing the railway line and were apparently raped at a vacant house near the railway station. He says both victims, a 22-year-old and a 23-year-old, were approached by an unidentified man wielding a knife. “The suspect allegedly threatened the victim (in the case of the 23-year-old) with the knife and thereafter raped her. He then took the victim’s cell phone and fled the scene,” says Xuma. He says the second victim, the 22-year-old, had reportedly been cornered in broad daylight at about 13:00, returning from class at a local college in Selosesha. He says the police had made a breakthrough, arresting a suspect regarding the rape and robbery of the second victim. “The second victim managed to identify the suspect. “Upon arrival at the given spot, the victim’s phone was found in the suspect’s possession and he was apprehended.” Xuma says the investigative officers received positive information from an informant about the whereabouts of the suspect, who was found in Zone 3, Selosesha. He added that the suspect faced charges of rape and robbery and that the investigation was ongoing. Xuma has appealed to residents who might have been victims of the arrested suspect to call the investigating officer, Det. Const. Mmokgo Masilo, on 082-455-5952 or 051-873-9122 or to visit her at the Selosesha police station. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  