President Jacob Zuma. (Pic: Karen Bleier, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  The truth is this. At no time before
President Jacob Zuma’s State of the Nation Address (SONA) had I even watched or
listened to one. And now that he will not be delivering one in the future, it
will be an effort to do so once again. His SONA had all the criteria of brilliant
entertainment; it made us laugh, it made us cry, there was just the right
amount of violence and it had us on the edge of our seats. But in the cold light of day, after we
surveyed the chaos of the remaining debris of the drinking game in which we had
so willingly participated (each time he mentioned a number), when we replayed
the events of the night before, the horror of what we had participated in would
leave us feeling empty, hopeless and ashamed. Much like his presidency. One of my favourite novels is William
Golding’s Lord of the Flies. It tells
the story of a group of young boys who get stranded on a tropical island. They
are not in danger from anything but themselves and their own prejudice. Throughout the novel the boys gleefully
participate in hunts and rituals and ultimately lose their measure of what is
and what is not dangerous behaviour. The boys form groups who war against each
other and the novel ends with not only the death of the "true wise friend
called Piggy" but also an island that is in flames. Much like South Africa after a Zuma
Presidency. A central theme to the novel is the loss of
innocence. The boys arrived on the island naive and child-like, but leave jaded
and damaged. The playfulness and optimism, the adherence to a past of structure
and of a legal system is their beacon. But then they allow their base needs to
overpower them and anything can happen. Much like South Africa after Zuma’s
presidency. The descent from Nelson Mandela to Thabo
Mbeki to Jacob Zuma follows this path. Hopeful and optimistic at first, South
Africans entered the democratic age with the innocence and positivity. We
lapped up the dream of the Rainbow Nation and we loved basking in the glory of
being an example of peaceful transition to the world. We proved to the cynics
that it could be done and we felt good. Thabo Mbeki's presidency was one where
intellectually, a legal and structured system was adhered to. Indeed the cracks
of Aids denialism and rising crime began to make us wonder. But still we
believed in the system. And then the lack of dynamic leadership pulled the ANC
towards the more charismatic and dangerous leadership of Jacob Zuma. South Africans largely accepted the change.
After all, the party that had borne the Freedom Charter and Nelson Mandela
would protect the island and would never let it burn. But they didn’t and it did. And somewhere in the flames lies the
charred remains of South African innocence and naivety. No longer can the
nation be fooled. No longer will the people of the country accept that which
any political party or any political leader has to say. Because we know that
politicians lie and steal and they worry more about their own future than the
future of the people they are paid to serve. The ANC has its work cut out. It will need
to build trust where there is none. It will need to build optimism and
positivity in a country devoid of both. Never again will it have the
convenience of being believed "just because". Lord
of the flies ends with the boys being saved. They
"weep for the end of innocence" and for the "darkness" in
man’s heart. We are not told how they recover or if the island rejuvenates. We
know that the process will not be a quick and easy one. But we get the sense
that they will take the experience into adulthood and that lessons have been
learned. South Africans have come of age. President
Jacob Zuma has ushered the country into maturity. Perhaps we need to thank him
for that, if nothing else. - Feldman is the author of Carry on Baggage and Tightrope and the afternoon drive show presenter on Chai FM.Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   