Jan Bornman President Jacob Zuma. (Themba Hadebe/AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – The Black First Land First (BLF) movement says it has no interest in protecting the ANC, but that it wants to protect President Jacob Zuma. Speaking at a briefing about the Hands Off Zuma campaign on Friday, BLF treasurer general and deputy national spokesperson Thandiswa Yaphi, said Zuma was under attack because of his stance on radical economic transformation and land expropriation. "BLF is not part of the ANC. We are not in any form of agreement with the ANC," Yaphi said at the briefing at the Elevate rooftop venue at the Reef Hotel, overlooking Johannesburg. "But, as BLF, we stand for all black people in the country, especially President Jacob Zuma because we have seen he is under attack from white people because of the stances he has taken - the ones of radical economic transformation, the one of land expropriation without compensation," she said. 'Not defending the ANC' "We are not defending the ANC, comrades. We must be clear on that. The ANC is captured. Most of the ANC leaders are in the pockets of white monopoly capital and we have stated that clearly," Yaphi said. The BLF was one of a number of organisations which have formed the Hands Off Zuma campaign and which plan to march to or picket outside Luthuli House on Monday, February 5. The group intend handing over a memorandum about their grievances, including speculation that Zuma might be recalled as President before his term ends.  "The only reason that Jacob Zuma is under attack is because he has come to the side of black people and realised white people are playing with us. We don't have the economy of our country… and it cannot remain the way it is," she said. Yaphi also weighed in on the debate around MultiChoice's decision to end its contract with ANN7, saying the station would not close. One of the organisers of the Hands Off Zuma campaign and chairperson of the Unemployed People's Trust Bafana Nzuza, warned the ruling party that, should they remove Zuma as president before his spell is up, the ANC will not get votes from those associated with the Hands Off Zuma campaign. 'Dare to remove Zuma' "We say, anyone who ignores the voice and mandate of ANC members, dares to remove President Zuma, tamper with tribal lands, and fails to implement the RET [radical economic transformation] policies endorsed by ANC branches, will not get our votes in 2019," he said. Nzuza said the group "categorically requested" ANC members to stop making statements about Zuma's recall. He also warned that removing Zuma before his term ended would be catastrophic for the country, but said he spoke only as a concerned citizen. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  