Parliament's presiding officers say the State of the Nation Address is called by the president, and the event is therefore on track to go ahead on February 8 as planned. Jump to
                    bottom To Recap: As things stand, SONA 2018 will go ahead as planned on February 8, whether a decision to recall President Zuma is communicated before then or not. If things change between now and then, exactly 7 days, Parliament will respond accordingly. There will be no special sitting before the address to debate a motion of no confidence, as requested by the EFF. Mbete tells journalists after the briefing that talk of another date, both for SONA and for a motion of no confidence by the EFF, are obviously in the discussions. The motion could still happen after the sitting, but not before.  Mbete says they have cooperation that the security issues must be avoided this time. "The matters that arose last year in terms of handling of journalists, they have been thoroughly canvassed by Parliament's media head Moloto Mothapo." Mbete: I underline the reasons that deputy speaker gave around the special sitting. The answer is no, we are not going to have a special sitting before the SONA address. Modise now addressing security concerns. "It does seem overkill to have members who are trained to use a certain amount of force to be in areas they shouldn't be. They will only call on security resources if action is required. "We have raised very sharply that we do not want the security ministers, and whoever is above them, to make security arrangements without consulting us. "There will not be blocking of signals, we will not have army personnel in the precinct. "If it does, let it be brought to our attention, so we can deal with it." NCOP chair Modise agrees with Tsenoli. The event belong to the president, and it's not Parliament's place to postpone without official confirmation. Tsenoli: "To call a special sitting before SONA, is unlikely to happen. "I can't see a persuasive argument for why it could happen. "It would be the most unprecedented thing." Mbete shrugs her shoulders next to him in agreement. "That's just my opinion as deputy speaker. I'm ready to be clobbered by the presiding officer next to me if I'm wrong," he jokes. Mbete smiles and nods that he is correct. Tsenoli: "Until we are confronted by the possibility that something else happens, we don't see it on the horizon yet. "So we have no reason to think won't go as planned." Tsenoli repeats that Parliament has not taken a decision about postponing SONA. "Unless there is an extra-ordinary event, the event will go ahead as planned."  A Bloomberg journalist says the media were promised at previous SONA's that there would be no extra security measures. "Yet at previous SONA's, we've had signal jammers, police disguised as Parliamentary security, journalists being manhandled. "How are you going to secure those things?"Also, have you considered a request for a special sitting before the February 8 date?" Mbete now addressing a separate issue about State Security Minister Bongani Bongo. This was based on an affidavit by Eskom inquiry lead evidence adviser Advocate Vanara that Bongo allegedly tried to bribe him. The issue was taken up last year and escalated to the relevant authorities, including the president who hired Bongo. Modise: It's not Parliament's place to request the President to postpone SONA. Whoever the president is, he [sets the date]. Modise: We have raised the issue of signal blockages, we have raised the issue of the four army personnel who were present last year. There shall not be guns on the precinct, at least not without our knowledge. If there is, the presiding officers will take issue with the matter. We will not interfere in what happens outside the precincts of Parliament. Modise: When SONA is convened, it brings together many people. If you don't plan properly it could be a disaster. You've got your most important departments and entities of the State under one roof. So if Parliament was to say it will not discuss a gathering of this importance under its roof, a national key point, we would not be doing ourselves any favour. Remember, it is not Parliament's decision to host. It is done at the behest and request of the President. Modise now addressing the EFF's request to hold a motion of no confidence on the day. "That matter yes, the speaker has received such a request. She did respond to them when she got the letter." She declines to discuss the DA's request for postponement, as the request was not directed to the NCOP, of which she is chairperson. NCOP deputy chairperson Raseriti Tau now says that the ANC is on record that SONA is on the agenda. "The current head of state is head of the republic of South Africa and is expected to address the nation on February 8." Tsenoli: Any means of illegal disruption should be dealt with accordingly. We must not be on the fence about issues that in their nature undermine the democratic dispensation we have. Tsenoli: "No, I'm not aware of any requests by the presiding officers for the president not to come. "It cannot be correct that because there was threat of disruption that the president can't speak. "What we should be doing is persuading people to steer clear of disruption. "The occasion must be respected." Reigning Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel Peters has also been invited, as well as former president's Thabo Mbeki and FW de Klerk, and former Speaker Frene Ginwala. A Reuters journalist asks if President Zuma will be making the address on the scheduled February 8 date. If so, are they concerned by the possible unrest that could occur in the House? Mbete: Around 1 000 members of the media from 140 publications applied for accreditation, but due to numbers it is not possible to accommodate everyone. They could only accommodate 66 members of the media in the two media bays in the National Assembly chamber. "We hope those 66 will be represented enough for the public to know what's going on." Mbete: On the budget, we have to give you accurate information on the actual spend. In 2014, the amount budgeted was R9.23m, but the actual spend was R6.35m. In 2015, the budget was R4m, but actual spend was R3.15m. In 2016, the budget was R3.94m, and actual spend was R2m. In 2017, the budget was R4m, and the spend was R2.27m. For this year, we have budgeted R4.3m. "As in previous years, we expect actual spend to be lower than that budgeted," says Mbete. "To keep costs down, we have done away with the gala dinner, where we have to feed people etc." Mbete: As for the risks, there are specific ways in which they will try and limit the number of people on the precinct on the day. Parliamentary workers for instance will go home earlier on the day. Momentary break as someone's mobile phone goes off, and continues to ring. The owner doesn't look like they are in the room. Mbete continues. There is a total of 1 120 guests that have been invited to form of part of the occasion. Mbete: "We must say the arrangements are normally the same. There is more attention being paid on a daily basis, and we do have the ordinary police around the precincts."Because there are more people applying to attend, there will be more interaction with the City of Cape Town. "As presiding officers we aren't involved on the activities outside of Parliament. Ours is inside Parliament when the two Houses sit together." National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete begins press conference. She says the theme for State of the Nation Address 2018 is in honour of former president Nelson Mandela, who would have turned 100-years-old this year. If Zuma delivers SONA, Ramaphosa is a lame duck Things haven't been looking this good for the ANC in years. The
 "Rainbow Revolution", as colleague Ferial Haffajee calls it, is 
sweeping across South Africa after the election of Cyril "Buffalo 
Soldier" Ramaphosa as party president just over a month ago. Zuma must go before SONA - ANC national working committee The ANC's national working committee (NWC) has instructed the party's 
top 6 officials to tell President Jacob Zuma to step down, sources have 
told News24. Opposition parties pile on pressure for Zuma to go... SONA rather than later Pressure is piling on President Jacob Zuma as opposition parties 
approach Parliament, with the Democratic Alliance seeking to postpone 
the State of the Nation Address and the Economic Freedom Fighters 
calling for a motion of no confidence in his leadership to be debated on
 the day that he is meant to deliver his speech. Jump to
                top