The ANC's national executive committee meeting is still ongoing amidst rumours that President Jacob Zuma has agreed to resign. Meanwhile, opposition parties have called for the dissolution of Parliament. WATCH: LIVE outside ANC NEC meeting: Zuma end game?  Jump to
                    bottom "There's a fine line between the political process and the legal process. Politically, the ANC may be well within its rights to recall the ANC president, but unless and until the president resigns and that leads to a vacancy in the Presidency, it's really of no legal force. "The Constitution does envisage a situation where a president has been recalled but refuses to tender that resignation. "In that instance, it's quite possible for the party to either impeach him, or call for a motion of no confidence. "If a motion of no confidence succeeds, it would also remove the deputy president and the entire Cabinet. "The deputy president then becomes an ordinary MP or backbencher and, of course, it would then depend on the Members of Parliament whether they voted for him to become president and complete President Jacob Zuma's term. In all of this Speaker Baleka Mbete becomes acting president," Phephelaphi Dube, constitutional expert Opposition parties want Parliament dissolved Opposition parties on Monday agreed that Parliament should be dissolved following a motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. After the opposition parties represented in Parliament met on Monday, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said they have resolved that they want the motion of no confidence in Zuma, currently scheduled for February 22, to be heard this week. The briefing by opposition parties at Parliament running a bit late.  #Zexit: If Ramaphosa can't do it, let Parliament – Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane says Parliament should be allowed to do its job if the "talk shop" between ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa and President Jacob Zuma has not worked. Maimane was communicating the DA federal council's resolutions from this past weekend's sitting at its Cape Town offices. With the challenges the ANC and Ramaphosa, specifically, have had in removing Zuma, the country effectively finds itself being held ransom, he said on Monday. "South Africa can't sit and be spectators. I think we must look at the power dynamics in the ANC, and not transfer it onto the people," Maimane told reporters. "If Deputy President Ramaphosa [is not] able to remove President Zuma, let Parliament do its job, and let's move on." Maimane admitted that the election of Ramaphosa as the ANC's new president had changed the mood in the country.  While the ANC NEC meeting is in progress in Irene, opposition parties will hold their own briefing from 15:00 at Parliament, "to discuss issues of national importance", including the ongoing saga around President Jacob Zuma.  Members of the media have gathered outside the venue where the special meeting of the ANC's NEC is scheduled to take place at around 14:00. Cyril Ramaphosa was reported to have been the first to arrive at the venue, much earlier today. (Sharlene Rood/News24)  OPINION: ANC power struggle shows that South Africa is not exceptional (after all) (By Cheryl Hendricks) South Africa is in the grip of political uncertainty. That President Jacob Zuma will go before the official end of his tenure after national electionsnext year is inevitable. But when, how, and at what cost to the ANC and the country? The current crisis is being framed as one of internal party politics – or the immorality of Zuma and his supporters. In fact, the impact is much bigger and wider, affecting South Africa’s standing in Africa, and in the world. In 1994 the world, and particularly African countries, looked to South Africa to provide ethical leadership after the end of apartheid. This was boldly depicted in the "African Renaissance" – the cultural, scientific and economic renewal of the continent championed by former president Thabo Mbeki. For a short time, South Africa occupied the moral high ground and was able to influence the agenda of intergovernmental organisations like the United Nations (UN), the African Union and the South African Development Community.  "Jacob Zuma represents the kingpin and the entire purpose of Section 204 is to allow the state to get a witness who is more of a foot soldier, to assist it where it otherwise doesn't have evidence to go after the kingpin." - James Grant https://t.co/xVnYMjsivJ ANC NEC powers according to ANC constitution: 12.2.21.2 Sign deployment contracts with public representatives and recall any public representative. @TeamNews24 #ZumaMustGo march  The organisers of the #ZumaMustGo march said they would have at least 60 buses of people marching today along with 4 NEC members. March was supposed to start at 8. So far, it’s only journalists here. @TeamNews24 "Ramaphosa’s remarks in Cape Town yesterday have shown South Africans what is most important to the new ANC President – unity within the ANC. For Ramaphosa, just like Zuma.It’s the ANC first and South Africa second." - @MmusiMaimane #DAFederalCouncil pic.twitter.com/SwZrInTymj Jump to
                top