Mandla Mahashe Contralesa, traditional leaders and EFF members rejoice as controversial film pulled from being screening in cinema. PHOTO: Mandla Mahashe Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories There was a small victory for groups against the controversial film Inxeba/ The Wound when the Century City Nu Metro Cinema cancelled screening of the movie on Friday 2 February. The movie has sparked uproar since it was released last year with its storyline around the secretive Xhosa practice of Ulwaluko. On Friday, traditional leaders with Contralesa and the EFF members from DuNoon’s Ward 104 stormed the centre to demonstrate against the film. When local chiefs arrived, the EFF had already managed to force management to cancel the screening of the movie. Chief Daluhlanga Sandi Manxiwa said they were happy that the screening was cancelled and hope it stays that way. “We are here to show our dissatisfaction with this film. It should have never been shot, let alone screened in the public for everyone to see. “Ulwaluko” is a very secretive undertaking and people who have not undergone shouldn’t know or see what happens there. Its quite dangerous and infuriating when people come and make a mockery of our traditions for monetary gain,” he said. Manxiwa said their goal was to make sure that the movie is not aired in any cinema. In Hemmingsway Shopping Centre in East London, protestors also stormed the establishment and forced screening to stop. Charles Gaika, a Coordinater at Contralesa said the organisation was totally against the movie and they were upset that the human rights commission approved the screening of such a movie. “We made submissions against the film but still it was passed and was regarded as ok to be screened. You cannot argue with tradition because in our culture the process is conducted by men. It has no place in public spaces,” he lambasted. Du Noon councillour Xolani Cekisa said that it was their duty to demonstrate their disapproval of the film. “When we got here they told us that they have not yet screened and they agreed to not show it. We are not stopping here, we are going to other malls to stop this,” he said. According to media reports, the director of the film, John Trengrove, cast and producers have laid complaints at the South African Human Rights Commission and the Commission for Gender Equality. This was after the cancelation of screening times in various cinemas around the country. “Human rights, freedom of expression, and freedom from gender oppression and inequality are protected by our Constitution. “Inxeba is not for everyone, but there are many young South Africans, particularly from the black queer community, who have every right to watch and engage with it because it reflects something of their own experience,” he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  