Kerushun Pillay, The Witness Doctor at Greys Hospital Sandile Kebheka was voted fourth in a poll of 100 most influential South African. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Pietermaritzburg doctor has been voted into fourth spot in a poll of the most influential South Africans. Dr Sandile Kubheka, who works in the ICU unit at Grey’s Hospital, was also voted first in the Science and Technology category. The poll, hosted by marketing and PR giant Avance Media, accepted votes from more than 90 countries across Africa. EFF national spokesperson Dr Mbuyiseni Ndlozi was placed first, followed by soccer star Percy Tau and model Nomzamo Mbatha. Acclaimed rapper Cassper Nyovest completed the top five. An ecstatic Kubheka (25) told The Witnesshe had no idea that he had even been nominated. “I only found out when I got tagged [on social media] in a post that had the list on it. It’s such an exciting and humbling experience,” he said. Kubheka, who is from Newcastle and now resides in Hilton, said: “It goes to show that you don’t have to be a big public figure like an actress or an entertainer to have an impact on people’s lives. “You can come from any background and make a difference and inspire others and live your dream.” Kubheka, who in 2013 became the youngest ever graduate at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s medical school, is an ambassador for the South African National Blood Service (SANBS). He was also nominated for the prestigious health personality award at the 2016 Africa Youth Awards. “If you look at the list, number two is a soccer star and to be ranked number four ahead of someone like Cassper Nyovest, you ask yourself ‘how did I end up being ranked so high?’ I’d have been happy being ranked number 100.” Kubheka said he would like to use his influence to inspire the younger generations. “I’d like to go back [to Newcastle] and do community work with different organisations and help people to better themselves. By grooming young minds, that’s how we get a successful society because they can teach the next generation and also the mature generation.” For the immediate future, Kubheka said he wants to get back into academics and specialise in critical care. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  