Kaveel Singh (Sadtu, Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories In the eyes of South Africans, former President Jacob Zuma’s nine-year tenure, which ended late on Valentine’s Day, was marked by declining popular trust and lacklustre performance. Watch. 

WATCH Durban – South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) general secretary Mugwena Maluleke said former president Jacob Zuma's second term in office was the hardest for unions to endure. "It was just not good for labour, people and the alliance. We had raised issues of corruption. He would verbalise matters, but never did anything about it," Maluleke said on Friday. He made the statement speaking to media on the sidelines of the Sadtu Excellence Awards in Umhlanga, KwaZulu-Natal. "If you have a leader who is no longer listening, no longer dialoguing with you, not taking the people seriously – we saw a leader who lost touch with reality. He was a leader who was possessed by others. We hope the relationship with the current president will not be the same." Maluleke sang newly elected President Cyril Ramaphosa's praises, noting his history in the labour sector. "We know him as a man of his word. He has high morals, integrity and therefore very committed and humble in serving the people. He understands the challenges in our country." Education a priority He also commended Ramaphosa for his leadership style. "With his leadership style of consulting, he will not disappoint us. We will help him achieve these goals. His union background will help him with planning and organising. He understands solidarity and having strong structures on the ground." Maluleke said Ramaphosa would challenge unions, but in a productive way. "We all need to ensure education and our people come first. He will be challenging us at times, but we believe he is committed to creating the space to dialogue. We do not have problems that are insurmountable." Maluleke added that Sadtu urged Ramaphosa to "take a look at the education budget". "This budget must not decrease. We need education to be strong because it is the base of any country. He must look at the budget this weekend and see if it was tampered with. We want free higher education for the poor and working class and infrastructure development in the rural areas." He said environment played an important role "in the education of a child". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  