Caryn Dolley Mark Lifman (File, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - A charge of pointing a firearm has been dropped against controversial businessman Mark Lifman. Lifman was meant to appear in the Bellville Magistrate's Court on Friday, but his attorney William Booth said the charge had been dropped and he would be released from custody. Lifman was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly pointing a firearm during an incident in March 2017. Earlier in the courtroom, Lifman's associate Andre Naude was awaiting his appearance. Lifman and Naude were previously arrested together. They had run a nightclub security company, Specialised Protection Services (SPS), which was launched on November 1, 2011. For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld nightclub security takeover, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked SPS company directors also included brothers Colin and Jerome "Donkie" Booysen - the alleged head of the Sexy Boys gang. Months after its launch, SPS was shut down because it was not registered with the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority, as was required by law. Lifman and Naude have recently been named in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court as rivals of suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack and a security grouping he allegedly heads. READ: Controversial businessman Mark Lifman 'illegally' arrested - lawyer Earlier this week, Booth said the incident Lifman had been taken into custody for allegedly happened in March 2017. However, the complaint was lodged with police only in January 2018. It is understood that Modack lodged the complaint. Modack is accused of extortion and intimidation alongside Carl Lakay, Ashley Fields, Colin Booysen and Jacques Cronje. They face charges relating to the nightclub security industry in that they allegedly took over security operations at clubs and restaurants, forcing owners to pay them. The group was arrested on December 15 and lodged a bail application shortly afterward. During this bail application in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court, Naude and Lifman were named as running a security operation opposed to Modack's. The duo were said to be working alongside Jerome Booysen. Modack's bail application is expected to continue on Monday.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  