Kaveel Singh Mike Mabuyakhulu is seen at a business forum dinner at Gallagher Estates. (Felix Dlangamandla Foto24, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban - One of ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa's biggest supporters in KwaZulu-Natal, and convenor for the party's Provincial Task Team (PTT), has been charged with corruption and money laundering. Mike Mabuyakhulu, the former MEC for economic development and tourism, appeared in the Durban Commercial Crimes Court on Wednesday, together with three other accused. Mabuyakhulu stands accused of accepting money while he was MEC, after a R28m North Sea Jazz Festival was cancelled in 2012. The court heard that companies headed up by Mabuyakhulu's co-accused were paid, despite the festival being cancelled. The formal charges he faces include: Fraud, corruption, theft and money laundering. There have been allegations of political interference since Mabuyakhulu was appointed to head the PTT. Mabuyakhulu was kicked out of the provincial government in 2016 when the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal - led by then-chairperson Sihle Zikalala - fired supporters of the Senzo Mchunu faction. Mabuyakhulu, who is the former provincial treasurer of the African National Congress, was appointed convener of the PTT after the national executive committee (NEC) suspended the provincial leadership of the ANC, led by Zikalala, after the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Pietermaritzburg nullified the provincial executive committee elected in 2015. Mabuyakhulu was part of the camp aligned Mchunu, which lost at the conference. He openly campaigned alongside Mchunu for Cyril Ramaphosa building up to the ANC December conference. A well-dressed Mabuyakhulu was all smiles as he appeared in court shortly after 12:00. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  