Eight suspects arrested in connection with investigations into the Free State Vrede dairy farm project during Hawks raids on various Gupta compounds appear in the Bloemfontein Regional Court. Jump to
                    bottom Here are the names of the suspects appearing in court today: Ashu Chawla, Nazeem Howa, Varun Gupta, Ronica Ragavan, Peter Thabethe, Dr Takisi Masiteng and Sylvia Dlamini.  ONGOING SAPS AND DPCI OPERATIONS The DPCI (Hawks) working with the NPA in the so-called ‘State of Capture’ investigations commenced to serve warrants of arrests on thirteen (13) suspects yesterday in Bloemfontien and Johannesburg relating to the Vrede Dairy Project. A total of eight (8) suspects have been arrested during the takedown operation;of which two (2) of the suspects are still being sort while 3 (two of Indiannativity and one of Chinese nativity) are believed to be outside the republic andassistance on them will be sort. Minister of Police, Fikile Mbalula has directed the Acting-Head of DPCI to makesure that all 10 appear before court today. The DPCI will soon be naming the 2suspects still being sort locally.The Hawks assisted by the National Intervention Unit of the SAPS effected thearrests on some of the implicated suspects while others handed themselves over. The investigations are still continuing and more arrests cannot be ruled out. “I must appreciate the patience of the public in general for allowing the lawenforcement agencies to do their work, these investigations naturally take a lot of time. "Due to the sensitivity and seriousness of these matters it is not possible for the DPCI or my office to provide minute to minute account of the state of capture related investigations but once again assure all that since mid-2017 atleast 17 dockets are being investigated without fear or favor and indeed with noholy-cows”, Mbalula concluded. So many journalists and political parties here for the #Gupta case. We are told space might be an issue. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/957tJcdOMB Leader in the Free State Roy Jankielsohn says they are in court today to observe the case and also to get closure. #GuptaRaid @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/g0NFIgEttR The build up outside the Bloemfontein Magistrate's Court ahead of the case against 5 people who were arrested by the Hawks during raids on various Gupta compounds. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/u6p3dCqYBb THE LATEST: Gupta linked five to face the music at the Bloemfontein Regional Court Five people arrested during Hawks raids on various Gupta compounds are to appear in the Bloemfontein Regional Court on Thursday, Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi confirmed. The suspects were arrested in connection with investigations into the Free State Vrede dairy farm project, Mulaudzi said. One Gupta brother and a business associate are among those arrested and more arrests are imminent, News24 understands. City Press reported that that former Free State agriculture head Peter Thabethe was arrested in connection with his involvement in the failed dairy farm project. COLUMN: The house of Zupta is tumbling down Writing about bankruptcy, Ernest Hemingway famously penned that it happened "gradually and then suddenly". The Zupta empire led by Godfather Jacob and Dons Ajay, Atul, Tony and Duduzane, are experiencing that right now. They may not be bankrupt (yet), but their criminal syndicate is quickly imploding as the Nasrec winds of change sweep over the country. Why didn't the Hawks and the National Prosecuting Authority pounce on the Zuptas years ago when people like Maseko, Mcebisi Jonas, Vytjie Mentor, Barbara Hogan and others started to expose the heart of state capture? ICYMI: Gupta latest: Atul in talks, Ajay officially under arrest Tense negotiations are still under way with the lawyers of five suspects arrested by the Hawks in connection with the R220m looted from the failed dairy farm in Vrede, Free State.  ICYMI: 3 arrested in Hawks Gupta raids he Hawks have arrested three people following a raid at the Guptas' Saxonwold residence on Wednesday morning. News24 understands that one Gupta brother and a business associate are among those arrested and more arrests are imminent.. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said they were currently conducting ongoing operations at various addresses in Gauteng. Mulaudzi said the operations were part of the Vrede farm investigations. Jump to
                top