iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Nairobi -  Kenyan police on Tuesday charged a politician over witnessing the mock inauguration last week of opposition leader Raila Odinga, an event the government considers treason, while the passports of more than a dozen opposition leaders were suspended. Lawyers, rights activists and opposition supporters demanded the freedom of Miguna Miguna, who remained in detention despite court orders on Friday and Monday for his release. Police said they charged Miguna in a court outside the capital, Nairobi. The government suspended the passports of 14 opposition leaders including strategist David Ndii and financier Maina Wanjigi. Director of Immigration Gordon Kihalangwa said the suspensions were due to ongoing investigations but did not give details. Odinga's ceremony last week proclaiming himself the "people's president" was meant to protest President Uhuru Kenyatta's election win last year. The opposition claims the original vote was rigged and that electoral reforms were not made after the Supreme Court nullified the election and ordered a fresh one. The opposition boycotted the second vote. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Kenya's government responded to the mock inauguration by shutting down the broadcasts of the country's top three TV stations for nearly a week. At least one other opposition figure has been arrested. Miguna's arrest has sparked protests. His supporters in the opposition stronghold of Kisumu city in western Kenya clashed with police, who fired tear gas at them. "There is no way they can arrest our general and jail him for one week before presenting him to court," protester Denis Ouma said. "We want Miguna Miguna to be released." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  