Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - The EFF is set on disrupting the State of the Nation Address, the day taps are expected to run dry in Cape Town has been pushed back to mid-May, and Eskom is getting a R5bn lifeline from Public Investment Corporation. Have a look at some of our top stories for today: Zuma refuses to go – these are the ANC's options It is now clear that President Jacob Zuma can see no reason why he should step aside for Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the running of the state. These are the ANC's options to remove him, writes Adriaan Basson. There will be no SONA, it will be a motion of no confidence debate - Malema The EFF says it is planning to disrupt the State of the Nation Address, with Julius Malema saying: "[There will be] no State of the Nation Address - it's [going to be a] motion of no confidence."ANC condemns brutal assault of woman near #LuthuliHouse - AS IT HAPPENEDThe ANC has strongly criticised the assault of protesters and in particular a woman by a grouping outside the ANC headquarters.#DayZero pushed out to May but Capetonians urged to continue saving waterDay Zero, the day residents may have to start queueing for water, is expected to move out to mid-May 2018 due to a decline in agricultural usage, deputy mayor Ian Neilson says. Cape Town warns of sanitation risks ahead of #DayZeroThe City of Cape Town's health department has emphasised the importance of washing hands and food with clean water as people skimp on water use to push #DayZero even further.PICS: Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters enjoys her first Super BowlMiss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters enjoyed her first American Super Bowl in New York.Toetie-less Boks move up in rankingsDespite not playing at the weekend, the Springboks have moved up one spot to FIFTH in the official World Rugby rankings. Allister Coetzee. (Gallo) R5bn PIC lifeline for EskomEskom’s latest interim financial results have sparked hope for a recovery inside Eskom, despite the deep concerns they highlight, says OUTA.Justice Zak Yacoob: 'I am certain that Jacob Zuma is a fraudulent, corrupt man' - AS IT HAPPENED'Witness X', Ajay Sooklal, has delivered testimony in the arms deal hearings and shedding light on the French arms company's involvement in the SA deal, as well as that of President Jacob Zuma and Schabir Shaik.Mugabe 'won't return as head of state', says nephew as he speaks out on new partyFormer Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe’s nephew Patrick Zhuwao has reportedly said that the latest political outfit, New Patriotic Front, "is not an avenue to bring back" his ousted uncle.*Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  