'Two presidents who failed to read the mood': Zimbabweans react to #ZumaRecall Harare - Zimbabweans have taken to Twitter to express their views on South Africa’s unfolding political drama, and many see parallels with the one that gripped their own country when Robert Mugabe was removed from office three months ago. With another president apparently defying calls to step down, locals have been observing developments south of the Limpopo with a certain sense of déjà vu. 'Asante sana moment' Tweeted businessman and church leader, Shingi Munyeza: "South Africa is currently having its 'ASANTE SANA' moment." Read more on this story here Is Zim's Mnangagwa keeping his word? Here's one way to find out Harare - President Emmerson Mnangagwa has spent more than 80 days in office, and a group of tech-savvy Zimbabweans has come up with a way of monitoring his progress (or lack of it) via a "presidential promise meter". The online tool, dubbed the "Mnangagwameter" is designed to measure the new president’s performance during his first 100 days in office. 'Government as good as we are' "When his Excellency took the oath of office on the 24th of November 2017, he officially shouldered the hopes and great expectations of Zimbabweans and the international community," say the designers of the website, New Democracy Group. For more on this story click here US 'extends sanctions against Zim', says new govt is a 'product of a military coup' - report Harare - The United States has reportedly added more Zimbabweans to its sanctions list, with the possibility of a review after elections in July. According to NewsDay, highly placed government sources said that the US sent a diplomatic note to Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Sibusiso Moyo two weeks ago saying that although it recognised the authorities in Harare, it would extend sanctions. The report said that the sanctions were believed to include ministers who were sworn in recently to join President Emmerson Mnangagwa's cabinet. For more on this story click here MDC's Morgan Tsvangirai dies Morgan Tsvangirai, the veteran Zimbabwean opposition leader who fought Robert Mugabe's regime for many years, died on Wednesday after battling against cancer, a party official said. Tsvangirai, who founded the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) in 1999, was among the most prominent critics of Mugabe, the long-time authoritarian leader who was ousted from power in November. "It is sad for me to announce that we have lost our icon and fighter for democracy," Elias Mudzuri, one of the vice-presidents of the MDC, said on Twitter.  Read more on this story here In central Nigeria peace eludes farmers and herders Makurdi - Madu Maji sits on a bench at the cattle market in Makurdi, central Nigeria, dragging his bare feet through the dust to stave off boredom. In the pens, the few cows that remain are little more than skin and bone. "Our cows can't go grazing in the bush, they are dying now. Herdsmen don't come here anymore," said the elderly Maji, who operates the biggest cattle market in Benue state. Because of violence in recent months, only about a dozen animals are sold every day, compared to hundreds earlier. Read more on this story here 200 000 displaced by ethnic clashes in DRC: humanitarian source Bunia - About 200 000 people have been displaced in ethnic clashes since mid-December in the northeastern Ituri province of the Democratic Republic of Congo, a humanitarian source told AFP on Tuesday. Another humanitarian source said "on an average 800 people are arriving daily" in Bunia, the main city in the region, due to fighting between the Hema and Lendu communities. Hema herders and Lendu farmers have been locked in violence in Ituri for decades, with tens of thousands killed from 1999 to 2003. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  