President Cyril Ramaphosa on during his run from Gugulethu to Athlone. (Jaco Marais, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Can the Guptas escape the long arm of the law?; Cape Town buys one more month for Day Zero and Graeme Smith believes Aiden Markram should not have been given the Proteas captaincy in the recent ODIs. Have a look at some of our top stories: REVEALED: SA links in US’s Hezbollah terrorism export case South Africa has emerged as a central location in a case involving a controversial Johannesburg-based businessman, who has been accused by the United States of illegally exporting items to Hezbollah, which it classifies as a terrorist organisation. Don't get ahead of yourselves - Ramaphosa to opposition on new Cabinet President Cyril Ramaphosa has reined in opposition demands of a prospective Cabinet reshuffle, saying an announcement on a new Cabinet will be made by him "at the appropriate time". Walking with the president: Ramaphosa's continued charm offensive is working Ramaphosa continues to win the hearts and minds of South Africans when in a genius PR move, he started what will now be weekly morning walks with the public. Zuma's exit was dignified - Madonsela Jacob Zuma's exit as president was dignified, according to former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela. LISTEN: Amor Vittone releases teaser for new single dedicated to Joost Amor Vittone has released a teaser for her new single dedicated to her estranged husband Joost van der Westhuizen on what would have been his 47th birthday. Eight more missing Life Esidimeni patients found Police have found eight more former patients from Life Esidimeni who were listed as missing by the Gauteng health department, says the DA's Jack Bloom. Can the Guptas escape the long arm of the law? Just how close the Guptas have become to the ruling Dubai monarchy, could play a role in whether they are extradited to South Africa to face trial for the alleged crimes they have committed. #DayZero: Cape Town buys one more month Day Zero - when the taps run dry in Cape Town - has now moved to 9 July due to a weekly drop in dam levels of only 0.5%. Smith questions call to give Markram captaincy Graeme Smith believes Aiden Markram should not have been given the Proteas captaincy in the recent ODIs. 6 red flags raised about SA's traffic demerit system The Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences bill, which has been met with substantial criticism, is one step closer to being signed into law. Here are some of the concerns by the public. Picture of Mugabe, wife Grace and AU's Faki goes viral on social media A picture of former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe together with his wife Grace and the African Union Commission Chairperson Moussa Faki has gone viral on social media. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  