Mandla Mandela with his wife Raabia on the red carpet rolled out for the State of the Nation Address. (Adrian de Kock, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – President Cyril Ramaphosa causes excitement among locals in Cape Town, DStv will see a price hike this April and see the ‘Zuma must go’ grannies are back with a new song. Here are some of today's top stories: SCROLL: Glitz and glamour as nation gears up for SONA From tradition African attire to the most colourful ensembles, members of Parliament, state officials and the who's who in government splash out for South Africa's first State of the Nation Address since Jacob Zuma resigned as president. Where are 'fugitive' Ajay Gupta and his brothers? News24 understands that the Hawks are still looking for Ajay Gupta, who is currently regarded as a fugitive, along with his two brothers Atul and Rajesh, albeit for different cases. Guptas' Sahara Computers closed, abandoned One of the key companies in the Guptas' crumbling business empire, Sahara Computers, has quietly closed down, reports News24 investigative journalists Pieter-Louis Myburgh and Angelique Serrao. Two media companies fined over R8m for collusion Print media companies Independent Media and Caxton & CTP Publishers and Printers have agreed to pay a total penalty of more than R8m, after admitting to collusion. WATCH: Viral 'Zuma must go' grans celebrate his resignation with new song The three women who call themselves the 'Zuma must go nanas', who became a nationwide sensation, are back with a new song.  Lessons Jacob Zuma taught us Now that Jacob Zuma, once a seemingly invincible figure, is out of the public office that he had used as an instrument of plunder, it would be a mistake to attempt to forget him, writes Mpumelelo Mkhabela. UK to deport at least 2 500 'illegal' Zimbabweans – report Britain has reportedly announced its intention to deport at least 2 500 undocumented Zimbabweans living in that country. Marx feels sorry for sacked Coetzee Springbok hooker Malcolm Marx has sympathy for sacked Springbok coach Allister Coetzee. DStv price hike coming in April MultiChoice is hiking DStv subscription fees again from 1 April with subscribers of the fastest-growing tiers, DStv Compact and DStv Compact Plus now seeing the biggest increase. Ramaphosa spotted out and about in Cape Town and locals are loving it! President Cyril Ramaphosa has caused excitement among locals after being spotted at Cape Town's V&A Waterfront, and in Sea Point. Just bumped into our new PRESIDENT!!! ???????????????????????????????????????? #Goosebumps A post shared by  Lee-Ann Liebenberg (@leeann_liebenberg) on Feb 15, 2018 at 10:31am PST  *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  