Staff Reporter @MsMadumo Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories In an intelligence-driven undercover operation executed in Woodstock on Thursday 8 February, a man and a woman aged 23 and 25 respectively were arrested for selling illegal mushroom plants to officers posing as “buyers” for the plants. Constable Lorencial Johnson, media liaison officer for the Cape Town Cluster Task Team, says that at about 14:10, the suspects stopped their vehicle next to the officers and asked them to get into the car, which they did. The suspects then drove off. “More undercover officers followed the car at a distance. In order to avoid a car chase through Woodstock's busy streets, the officers in the car managed to conclude the deal before the car could drive far and the officers got out again. The rest of the undercover officers were placed along the route the suspects would drive and managed to apprehend the suspects on Station Road, Woodstock.” Johnson says an amount of R5000 was paid by the undercover officers for the mushroom plants, which was recovered from the suspects.“These dried-out mushrooms contain an illegal substance that causes hallucinations when eaten.” In another sting operation in Woodstock on Thursday, an 18-year-old man was arrested for dealing in drugs. Johnson says that after careful planning and consideration, police attached to the Cape Town Cluster Task Team conducted an undercover operation in Lower Main Road, where an undercover officer from the team posed as a “buyer” and met up with the suspect. “The deal took place in the vehicle of the suspect and 16 grams of hydro-critical dagga to the amount of R2400 was bought from him. “As soon as the deal was concluded and the officer signalled the rest of the team, they quickly moved in before the man could drive off and arrested him for dealing in drugs.” All three suspects are expected to appear in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court on Friday 9 February, on charges of dealing in drugs.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  