Rebone Tau -MyNews24 Former president Jacob Zuma and President Cyril Ramaphosa at Zuma's farewell function. (Presidency) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories There is nothing as fulfilling as being a member of the ANC. Over the past 10 years, we saw an ANC that was highly divided. It purged many comrades who did not toe the line or agree with the dominant view on issues that were denting the image of the ANC. Factionalism was the order of the day, and comrades hated each other with passion. One would think we were not members of the glorious movement. Along the way, comrades were killed and it pains one to see how even the level of engagement degenerated in the movement. Howling and insults became the order of the day amongst us as members. We saw gatekeeping within our branches. If you had a different view and were not seen as a praise singer your membership would not be accepted by those leading the branch. Now we want comrades who will rise to the occasion and focus on making sure the ANC delivers to the people of South Africa. Resolutions of the ANC 54th conference have to be implemented, especially at local government where our councillors need to work in their respective wards. We need branches of the ANC that will be amongst people and not branches of conferences. Now is the time to revive the activism that we saw fading away and to put a stop to opulence within the ANC. Lifestyle audits are the way to go in order to deal with corruption. Stealing from the poor is now a thing of the past, and people must know they need to work hard for their money. Under President Cyril Ramaphosa, we are seeing an ANC that is for the people of South Africa; an ANC that will bring back the meaning of being a patriotic citizen of the Republic of South Africa. It is now an ANC which is taking its rightful place in society, as it was known in the past as the leader of society. One was filled with joy to see a photo of  President Cyril Ramaphosa at the dinner he hosted for former president Jacob Zuma. Now one understands the meaning of "motho ha a lahliwe". President Ramaphosa is teaching us what the meaning of comradeship is – something we had forgotten in the movement. Under Ramaphosa, we will see a united ANC as members. Now one understands what is meant by the saying, "Actions speaks louder than words". Ramaphosa is really leading by example and one hopes that all ANC NEC members would follow in his footsteps. ANC members need to understand that the era of factionalism and gatekeeping is over. This should also mean that the killings of fellow comrades must come to an end. Now is the time for members of the ANC to do introspection on what kind of ANC we need moving forward and what our roles will be as individual members in making sure we advance the National Democratic Revolution. Ramaphosa is not only the beacon of hope for South Africans, but he is also what some members of the ANC have been waiting for since Polokwane. Let us rise to the call of unity by the leadership under President Ramaphosa in making sure we become agents of change in our communities. Let us continue to guard our country at all times and be patriotic citizens who will work towards changing the lives of all South Africans. We must blow the whistle against those who are corrupt, even if they are our friends. If we don’t do that, then we are as corrupt as them. Aluta Continua - Rebone Tau is a former member of the ANCYL NTT and ANC BEC member in ward 42 in Tshwane. She writes in her personal capacity. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  