Jeanette Chabalala Fikile Mbalula. (Simphiwe Nkwali, Gallo Images, Sunday Times, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – Police Minister Fikile Mbalula on Tuesday welcomed the conviction of former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer. Lamoer was found guilty of corruption in the Western Cape High Court on Monday. "The conviction sends a strong message that no one is above the law. It also instills confidence in the country's criminal justice system that criminals will face the might of the law," Mbalula said in a statement. "We need police who must understand that their job is a calling, that they have a duty to serve and protect people of the Republic of South Africa." The court found Lamoer guilty of corruption, but not guilty of money laundering and racketeering. READ: Former Western Cape top cop found guilty of corruption Lamoer, along with tow truck company owner Salim Dawjee, Brigadiers Darius van der Ross, Sharon Govender and her husband Colin Govender, were the accused in the trial. They faced 109 charges of corruption, racketeering and money laundering, involving R1.6m. News24 previously reported that Dawjee allegedly paid them for favours by covering some of their fuel, clothing and travel costs. Dawjee was found guilty of fraud and corruption, Sharon Govender was acquitted of all charges she faced, her husband was found guilty of corruption, as was Van Der Ross. Lamoer initially pleaded not guilty in the matter. However, on February 8, he changed this, pleading guilty to one charge of corruption. READ: Former Western Cape top cop pleads guilty to corruption charge In his plea explanation earlier this month, Lamoer said that he had entered into negotiations with the State, with a view to finalising the trial expeditiously. Lamoer said he had lost his wife in 2005 and was raising his three daughters on his own. He added that he had served in the police for more than 35 years, with "distinction and loyalty towards our country and its people". "During the serving in the police, I was never investigated or departmentally charged for any misconduct," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  