Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  It is entirely appropriate
that Jacob Zuma didn’t leave office in a dignified way, in a way that is in the
interest of his party and the country. It defines his
nine years in office: arrogant, defiant, destructive, giving the democratic process
the middle finger, only serving his own interests. As I write this,
the news is that the ANC’s NEC sat for thirteen hours and eventually determined
that he be asked to resign. He refused, wanting three more months in office. We will know after
noon today whether he will be removed by Parliament after a motion of no
confidence and if so, when this will happen. At least if a
motion of no confidence is passed, the whole Cabinet gets dismissed and Cyril
Ramaphosa could appoint a new one without having to fire the Zuma loyalists and
Gupta proxies like Des van Rooyen, Bathabile Dlamini, Faith Muthambi, Mosebenzi
Zwane and David Mahlobo. Zuma actually
deserves to be impeached, causing him to lose all his generous benefits and
security, but we have a budget speech next week and many other urgent matters –
we can’t wait for that process. Zuma’s demise will
be an end to the darkest chapter in South Africa’s history since we became a
democracy in 1994. Now we understand
a little better why Ramaphosa was being so cautious the last few weeks in his
efforts to get Zuma to leave office. It also tells us
that Ramaphosa is going to find it a tough job, an almost impossible job, to
lead the ANC if he wants to be true to his mission of change, renewal and
growth. The fact that it
took so many hours of deliberation by the ANC to get to a decision to order
Zuma to depart tells us that there must have been strong support for Zuma
staying on in the ANC’s top decision making body. Who are these
people? What could their motivation be? Tribalism? Greed? Fear of getting their
dirty past exposed? A desire for what Gwede Mantashe called "exit
looting"? Some of them say
in public that they’re standing with Zuma because only he will make sure
radical economic transformation will happen. We know that they
know that they are lying. After all the scandals at the state-owned enterprises
and all the hundreds of billions of rands stolen and wasted, everybody knows
the Zuma version of RET was indeed radical economic looting; stealing from the
poor. The stark truth is
that under Zuma, South Africa became poorer, more divided, more unstable and
more unequal. Zuma ripped
through the fabric of our society and compromised many important state
institutions. He outsourced the
political power we, the people, entrusted him with to an immigrant family in
exhange for favours and money. He allowed this family to insult us and subvert
our sovereignty and national pride. He undermined our
judicial system and repeatedly violated his oath of office and our Constitution. He blatantly lied
to Parliament on several occasions. He destroyed many
of the hard-won gains our society had made between 1994 and 2009. He sat on a throne
like a feared king, dishing out and receiving favours and gifts. He did serious
damage to our economy and singlehandedly caused a credit downgrade. His personal life
is a mess and he embarrassed his country in the eyes of the African continent
and the world. He ruled by fear
and division. He discredited the
concept of a rapid transformation by using the concepts radical economic
transformation and white monopoly capital as a smokescreen for large-scale
theft of public money. He was driven by
greed, lust for power and paranoia about ending up in jail. He systematically
destroyed political accountability. During his nine
years in power, money meant for development and alleviating the plight of the
poor were brazenly stolen by his inner circle and business buddies. He brought back
something the ANC had successfully fought against for a century: tribalism and
ethnic chauvinism. And when it was
his time to go, he threatened and mobilised and played dangerous games. We must take the
names down of those in positions of power who still supported him after it
became clear that the broader ANC and the public wanted the new ANC president
to take over the leadership of the country. We should remember
their names, because they can’t be trusted. The ANC itself should remember
their names, because they clearly don’t have their party’s interests at heart. They’re
complicit in the atrocities of their leader. I have come across
several long-time ANC supporters who refused to vote for the ANC at the last
election. They told me they’re ready to return to the fold because under Cyril
Ramaphosa the honour of the ANC will be restored. But will it? What
does it say about the ANC if so many in positions of power still cling to this
corrupt man who had done South Africa such unspeakable harm? I have been very
upbeat about what Ramaphosa could achieve as the new ANC leader, but I clearly
underestimated how many senior ANC leaders stubbornly side with Zuma. A mere week ago I
still believed that the change in leadership could make it possible for the ANC
to rejuvenate and even become a modern political party instead of a tired
former liberation movement. Now I’m not so sure. Perhaps this
morning’s pessimism will lift once Ramaphosa has established himself in
Tuynhuys. But the
much-expected Cyril Spring has started on a very chilly note. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   