Lupita Nyong'o and Danai Gurira. (Photo: Disney) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Get all the action as Members of Parliament debate President Cyril Ramaphosa's first State of the Nation Address, former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer is found guilty of corruption and this man is caught on CCTV trying to 'get peek up woman’s skirt'. Have a look at some of the leading stories making headlines: SCROLL: Land a burning topic during #SONADebate EFF leader Julius Malema says President Cyril Ramaphosa must not bluff about following through with plans to allow land expropriation without compensation. Follow the debate on President Cyril Ramaphosa's State of the Nation Address. Atul Gupta challenges state capture case, confirms he is out of the country The NPA has confirmed that Atul Gupta has filled an application to have a preservation order by Asset Forfeiture Unit to the value of R10m set aside. Vrede dairy farm case: Kamal Vasram gets R100 000 bail One of the eight people arrested by the Hawks during raids at a number of Gupta compounds - including their Saxonwold home and reportedly at one of their offices in Sandton - has been granted bail in the Bloemfontein Regional Court. WATCH: Sitting down with Black Panther's Danai Gurira and Lupita Nyong'o in South Africa Taking the time to chat to Channel24’s Nikita Coetzee, Hollywood A-listers Lupita Nyong’o and Danai Gurira spoke about the pressure of working on Marvel’s Black Panther as well as what it was like taking on the roles of strong warrior women.  SARS to cooperate with Ramaphosa's tax inquiry The South African Revenue Service says it will cooperate with an inquiry into its administration and governance, as announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Former Western Cape top cop found guilty of corruption Former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer has been found guilty of corruption in the Western Cape High Court. OPINION: JP Duminy flirting with permanent axing from Proteas Although his credentials still look a bit firmer stats-wise at T20 level, JP Duminy is flirting with permanent axing from the Proteas, writes Rob Houwing. WATCH: Man caught on CCTV trying to 'get peek up woman’s skirt' A video captured by CCTV cameras of a man apparently taking an image with his phone under a woman's skirt at a petrol station in Veldenvlei, Richards Bay has gone viral on social media.  Psychologist's report still outstanding in 'Springs house of horrors' case The trial of the man dubbed the "Springs monster", and his wife, who are accused of the decade-long abuse of their five children, was postponed in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria due to an outstanding psychologist's report. Mugabe 'conspicuously silent' on Tsvangirai's death - report Zimbabwe's ex-president Robert Mugabe has reportedly not said a word since the death of his toughest rival Morgan Tsvangirai. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  