IN an early start for the 2019 elections, the Electoral Commission will open all 22 612 voting stations throughout the country over the weekend of March 10 and March 11 to: • assist new voters to register; • allow already registered voters who have moved since they registered to re-register in their correct voting district; and • allow registered voters whose address details are not on the voters’ roll to provide this information. All Umvoti stations will be open from 8 am to 5 pm on the 10th and 11th. In June 2016 the Constitutional Court ruled that the Electoral Commission had until June 2018 to update the voters’ roll with all available addresses. Significant progress has been made with 75% of the total number of registered voters with addresses — this leaves 2,8 million voters still to provide addresses and a further 3,5 million addresses that are currently classified as “incomplete” or “generic”, requiring more analysis to ascertain whether there is any further detail available. Chief Electoral Officer Sy Mamabolo urged all voters to make every effort to visit their voting station during the weekend of March 10 and March 11. “The voters’ roll is the bedrock of electoral integrity. Its quality is the foundation for credible, free and fair elections. This includes making sure all eligible voters are registered in the correct segment of the voters’ roll. The requisite quality of the voters’ roll is depended on the support and participation of voters and all stakeholders.” The Contact Centre, 0800 11 8000, has been activated from Monday to Friday during office hours to assist voters to find their correct voting station and to answer any queries. Registered voters can also SMS their ID number to 32810 to receive an SMS containing the address of their voting station (charged at R1). The online facility www.elections.org.za/MyIEC/Account/Register remains open for registered voters with access to the Internet to update and review their address online. These voters are also being urged to update their details before the end of May 2018. Voters visiting their voting station should take a copy of their bar-coded ID book, smart card ID or temporary ID certificate. They will be assisted to complete a registration form providing their home address at which they ordinarily reside which will allow the Electoral Commission to place them in the correct voting district. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  