Etienne Tshisekedi Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Kinshasa - Opposition figures in Democratic Republic of Congo gathered on Thursday to commemorate the anniversary of the death of their historic leader, in a ceremony that underscored the country's deep political rift. A crowd packed Kinshasa cathedral for a mass for Etienne Tshisekedi, whose death in Brussels on February 1 2017 at the age of 84 robbed the opposition of their figurehead. His remains have become part of DRC's political wrangle. Mourners loudly applauded the appearance of Tshisekedi's son, Felix, who is head of the Rally of the Opposition (Rassop), which is spearheading demands that President Joseph Kabila step down. Kabila, 46, has been in power since 2001 following the assassination of his father Laurent. He is at the helm of a regime widely criticised for corruption, repression and incompetence. Kabila's constitutional term in office expired in December 2016 but he stayed on, under laws enabling him to remain in office until his successor is elected. Elections were scheduled to be held in 2017 under a deal brokered by the Catholic church and supported by Tshisekedi. But, to widespread criticism, the authorities delayed them, rescheduling them for December 23 this year. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook Demonstrations calling for Kabila to step down ahead of the poll have been bloodily repressed. 'An opponent even when dead' Tshisekedi spent a lifetime in politics, first as ally-turned-enemy of despot Mobutu Sese Seko, then as rival to the ensuing Kabila dynasty of Laurent Kabila, assassinated in 2001, and Joseph Kabila. His body is in a morgue in Belgium, awaiting repatriation and burial in the land of his birth. That move has been held up, ostensibly because of a row over who will pay for it. But others say the authorities are thwarting it to prevent the funeral from snowballing into an anti-Kabila rally. "I hope that the authorities will ultimately decide to repatriate Etienne Tshisekedi and organise the funeral that he deserves," said Tshisekedi's younger brother, Gerard Mulumba, a senior prelate who conducted the mass. Ange Pabolangi, a leading figure in a splinter group of the UDPS party, said the government "considers Tshisekedi to be an opponent even when he's dead". "Contrary to what is being said, the UDPS is not posing any political conditions to the repatriation (of the remains). But the government is afraid of street protests if the body returns," Pabolangi said from Belgium. Despite the constitutional limits on two-term presidencies, there is intense speculation as to whether Kabila will stand again in December's election. On January 26, at his first press conference since 2012, Kabila stood by the election timetable but sidestepped questions whether he would run. On Wednesday, the head of DRC's electoral commission, Corneille Nangaa, said the elections "should enshrine the change of power at the highest level." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  