Grace Mugabe 'may have been an innocent beneficiary of a fraudulent academic degree... she won't be probed Harare – Zimbabwe's anti-graft agency has reportedly said that the ongoing investigation into Grace Mugabe's controversially acquired PhD will not lead to the arrest of the former first lady herself. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Committee (Zacc) chairperson, Gordon Nguni said that Grace could have been an "innocent beneficiary of a fraudulent academic degree". Grace, whose husband resigned in November under pressure from the military, received the doctorate in 2014 amid allegations she did not study for it. Read more on this story here Mugabe, 94, says NO to mini-birthday party offer by Zanu-PF youth – report Harare – Zimbabwe's former president Robert Mugabe reportedly rejected a mini-birthday party that had been organised for him by the Zanu-PF youth league this week. According to NewsDay, Mugabe, who turned 94 on February 21, opted instead to celebrate privately with his close family members. The Zanu-PF youth league had indicated earlier this week that Mugabe’s 94th birthday would be a low-key event. The nonagenarian had held several lavish birthday parties over the past decade across the southern African country. For more on this story click here Ramaphosa's 'new dawn' must bring light to DRC too - expatriates Cape Town – The "new dawn" that President Cyril Ramaphosa has promised to South Africa, must also reach the Democratic Republic Congo (DRC), expatriates of the troubled country said outside Parliament on Friday. At about 11:30, around 60 Congolese nationals gathered outside Parliament's main gate on the corner of Plein and Roeland streets. As a result of their presence, the handful of pro-Israel protesters who stand outside Parliament every Friday moved further along Plein Street. Read more on this story here Two shot dead by Zimbabwe police in minibus clash Harare - Zimbabwean police said on Friday they had shot two people dead and injured four others during a confrontation in the capital Harare over a ban on commuter minibuses in the city centre. City authorities on Thursday banned minibuses from using pick-up points in central Harare in a move to tackle traffic congestion, angering both drivers and passengers. The ban was reversed within hours by the government, but police had already been deployed to implement it. Read more on this story here Former South African colonel sentenced to death in South Sudan – report Juba – A former South African colonel, William John Endley, has reportedly been sentenced to death by a court in South Sudan on charges of plotting against Salva Kiir's government. According to BBC, Endley, who served as an adviser to ex-deputy president Riek Machar was sentenced to death by hanging. Endley's photo was tweeted by a privately-owned South Sudanese radio station on Friday. Read more on this story here Two car bombings strike Somalia capital Mogadishu - At least 18 people were killed and 20 wounded on Friday when two car bombs exploded in the Somali capital of Mogadishu, the city's main ambulance service said. Jihadist rebels claimed the attack. "We have so far collected 18 bodies and 20 wounded persons from one of the blast scenes," Abdukadir Abdurahman Aden of the Aamin Ambulance told AFP. The bombings targeted the presidential palace and a city hotel, police said. Read more on this story here Missing girls in NE Nigeria a 'national disaster': president Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday said Nigeria had suffered a "national disaster" over girls who went missing after Boko Haram jihadists attacked their school in northeast Nigeria. "This is a national disaster. We are sorry that this could have happened," said Buhari in a statement, issued five days after the attack in the town of Dapchi, in Yobe state. "We pray that our gallant armed forces will locate and safely return your missing family members. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  