This handout picture released by the Italian Carabinieri Press Office on February 3, 2018 shows an Italian man arrested for suspected of wounding several foreign nationals in a drive-by shooting in Macerata. (AFP /Italian Carabinieri Press Office) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Milan
- An Italian gunman with extreme right-wing sympathies shot and wounded six
African immigrants on Saturday in a two-hour drive-by shooting spree,
authorities said, terrorizing a small Italian city where a Nigerian man had
been arrested days earlier in a teenager's gruesome killing. Police photos showed the shooting
suspect with a neo-Nazi tattoo prominently on his forehead as he sat in custody
and an Italian flag tied around his neck as he was arrested in the central
Italian city of Macerata, Authorities
identified him as Luca Traini, a 28-year-old Italian with no previous record. Traini had run for town council
on the anti-migrant Northern League's list in a local election last year in
Corridonia, the party confirmed, but its mayoral candidate lost the race. The
news agency ANSA quoted friends of his as saying that Traini had previously
been affiliated with Italian extremist parties like the neo-fascist Forza Nuova
and CasaPound. The shooting spree came days
after the slaying of 18-year-old Pamela Mastropietro and amid a heated electoral
campaign in Italy where anti-foreigner sentiment has become a key theme. Italy
has struggled with the arrival of hundreds of thousands of migrants in the last
few years coming across the Mediterranean Sea in smugglers' boats. After the attack, Premier Paolo
Gentiloni warned in Rome that "the state will be particularly severe
against whoever thinks of feeding the spiral of violence." In Macerata, Interior Minister
Marco Minniti said the gunman had been motivated "by racial hatred,"
and had "a background of right-wing extremism with clear references to
fascism and Nazism." "What happened appears to be
a completely random armed retaliation raid," Minniti said, adding that
evidence indicated that while the gunman had planned the attack, he had acted
alone. "In a democracy, it is not permitted for individuals to seek
justice alone, even if in this case, there is nothing that recalls a notion of
justice." Authorities said the six wounded
— five men and one woman — appeared to be random targets in various parts of
the city of 43,000 in Italy's central Marche region. Italian news reports
indicated that the gunman's trajectory included the area where the Italian
murder victim was found and where the prime suspect in her slaying lived. The identities and nationalities
of the shooting victims remained unknown. Hospital officials said late on Saturday
that one had been treated and released, while the others had either undergone
surgery or were facing operations for their injuries. One of them remained in
intensive care. As the violent attack unfolded,
police told residents to stay inside and ordered a halt to public transport to
limit the casualties. Such violent shootings are rare in Italy and usually associated with the southern
Italian mafia. A video posted by the il Resto di
Carlino newspaper showed the suspect with an Italian flag draped over his
shoulders being arrested by armed Carabinieri officers in the city centre, near where he apparently fled his car
on foot. Italian news reports said a registered gun was found inside the car
and the suspect did a fascist salute as he was arrested, but no salute was
visible in the video. The tattoo on Traini's forehead
was that of the Wolfangel, an ancient runic symbol that according to the
Anti-Defamation League was appropriated by Nazi Germany and later adopted by
neo-Nazis in Europe and the United States. All Africans Macerata Mayor Romano Carancini
confirmed that all six victims were black Africans. "They were all of colour, this is obviously a grave fact. As was
grave what happened to Pamela. The closeness of the two events makes you
imagine there could be a connection," Carancini said. Mastropietro's dismembered
remains were found on Wednesday in two suitcases two days after she walked away
from a drug rehab community. A judge on Saturday confirmed the arrest of the
main suspect, identified as 29-year-old Innocent Oseghale. Italy is heading into a general
election on March 4 and the head of the rebranded League party, Matteo Salvini,
had capitalized on the teen's killing in campaign appearances even before the
shooting on Saturday. Salvini is pledging to deport
150,000 migrants in his first year in office if his party wins control of
parliament and he is named premier. That has drawn sharp rebukes that Salvini
is using the migrant crisis to foment xenophobia for political gain. Salvini's League, which dropped
"northern" from its name in a bid for a national following, has
joined a centre-right coalition with
Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia and Giorgia Meloni's much smaller Brothers of
Italy. They are running against Matteo Renzi's much-splintered centre-left Democratic Party and the populist
5-Star Movement. Salvini told reporters on Saturday
at a campaign stop in Bologna that he would bring security to Italy. "Whoever shoots is a
delinquent, no matter the skin colour. It
is clear that out-of-control immigration ... brings social conflict," he
said. Senate president Pietro Grasso of
the small liberal party Free and Equal chastised Salvini for using the
tragedies to gain votes. "Whoever, like Salvini, exploits
news events and tragedies for electoral purposes is among those responsible for
the spiral of hatred and violence that we must stop as soon as possible,"
Grasso said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  