Patrick Zhuwao (Via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – Former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe's nephew, Patrick
Zhuwao, has reportedly said that the latest political outfit, New Patriotic Front
(NPF), "is not an avenue to bring back" his ousted uncle. Reports over the weekend indicated that members of the
Zanu-PF faction, Generation 40 (G40) that was loyal to former first lady Grace
Mugabe were about to launch a new party in Zimbabwe. In
documents circulated on social media the party, the NPF, accused the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) and the African Union (AU) of
"dereliction of duty" for failing to condemn the military takeover
that removed Mugabe from power last year. It called on the two continental
bodies to "openly renounce and condemn "the takeover as a
"military coup". An AU force should "monitor and ensure
demilitarisation of politics, state and government institutions", the
document said. It also urged the AU and SADC to cut diplomatic ties and
co-operation with the government and to no longer recognise Zimbabwe as a
member. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. New
Zimbabwe.com on Monday quoted Zhuwao as saying that NPF's objective was to
reverse the "bloody coup" of November 15, 2017. Zhuwao, the
report said, dismissed the "feared" and "misinterpreted" notion that Mugabe
would return as head of state and government. "It would definitely be grossly unfair to president Mugabe to seek to burden and
encumber him again with responsibilities for the state, given his contribution
to Zimbabwe thus far," Zhuwao was quoted as saying. He said
that Mugabe's family deserved to enjoy "his company and presence". Zhuwao said
that his party viewed Mugabe as its "mentor par excellence". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  