Cape Town – President Cyril Ramaphosa hosted a farewell function for his predecessor Jacob Zuma at Tuynhuys in Cape Town on Tuesday afternoon. The farewell – attended by various ministers, deputy ministers and Presidency officials – was aimed at paying tribute to Zuma "for his contribution to South Africa's development during his nine years in office", according to the Presidency. In pictures published by the Presidency on Twitter, Zuma seemed to be in a jovial mood with Ramaphosa, who took over from him after he resigned as president on February 14. Ramaphosa has since delivered a State of the Nation Address (SONA) that was widely commended by the general public, the business sector and opposition parties. He ended his speech with a quote from Hugh Masekela's Thuma mina (send me). Ramaphosa called on the public to "send" him because, he said, "I wanna be there when the people win the battle against Aids; I wanna lend a hand; I wanna be there for the victims of violence and abuse; I wanna lend a hand; Send me."  Among the ministers who attended was Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, whose removal the EFF has called for over allegation of involvement in state capture.    The EFF called on Ramaphosa to axe Gigaba for the role he allegedly played in enabling the Guptas to have undue control over state-owned enterprises and other organs of state. The party said it would boycott Gigaba's Budget Speech on Wednesday if he's the one to deliver it. "The EFF rejects Malusi Gigaba and will boycott the budget vote if it is him who will be presenting it. To avoid disruptions, we will stay away from the House for the entire country to see that Ramaphosa is sustaining the legacy of disreputable ministers like Gigaba, awarding them with the privilege of presenting the country's budget which they have ensured it benefits corrupt interests of the Gupta syndicate." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  