'Tears' as Zim First Lady gives up parliamentary seat – reports Masvingo - Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s wife has reportedly given up her seat as Chirumanzu-Zibabwe legislator, to focus more on her role as the country’s first lady. According to the Standard newspaper, president Mnangagwa broke the news to multitudes of "teary" Zanu-PF supporters over the weekend during a rally held at Mvuma stadium. Mnangagwa told the gathering that his wife, Auxilia, now wanted to concentrate on her role as mother of the whole nation and not just a particular constituency. Read more on this story here EXCLUSIVE: 'I respect my president's family but they are not the MDC party,' says Tsvangirai's deputy Cape Town - Power struggles remained in the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) over the weekend, with Nelson Chamisa maintaining that he was the acting president of Zimbabwe's main opposition party. Reports last week indicated that the MDC was embroiled in a power struggle over who was in charge of the party - months before key elections - as its leader Morgan Tsvangirai received cancer treatment in hospital. Chamisa and Elias Mudziri, who were both vice presidents of the MDC clashed openly over who was acting leader while Tsvangirai underwent chemotherapy at Wits Donald Gordon Medical Centre in Johannesburg. More on this story click here Zim white farmers who lost their farms 'may soon be compensated' Harare – The Zimbabwean government has reportedly set up a committee that will spearhead the process of compensating white farmers whose farms where seized during the country's controversial land reform programme. According to Daily News, President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s administration appointed the permanent secretary of the land and agriculture ministry, Ringson Chitsiko, to chair the committee until October next year. The report said that the appointment of Chitsiko was seen as "signalling the commencement of efforts to make agricultural production attractive again" in the southern African country. For more on this story click here Ethiopia drops charges against top dissident Bekele Gerba Addis Ababa - Ethiopia on Monday dropped charges against top dissident Bekele Gerba, state media reported, ending the trial of a critic whose detention fuelled deadly protests and brought the country international condemnation. The move is the latest instance of Ethiopia's government pardoning or dropping charges against high-profile prisoners since Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn last month announced an unspecified number of detainees would be released. "The federal attorney general today dropped charges against seven suspects, including Bekele Gerba," state-affiliated Fana Broadcast Corporate reported. For more on this story click here More than 1 500 Boko Haram suspects to go on trial in Nigeria Lagos - Hundreds of Boko Haram suspects were due back in court Monday to hear if they will be prosecuted, sentenced or released, as proceedings resumed at a military base in central Nigeria. The first major prosecutions of people arrested during the insurgency began last October, involving 1 669 suspects held at the facility in Kainji, Niger state. The justice ministry has said 468 were released after it was found they had no case to answer; 45 were sentenced to between two and 15 years in jail; and 28 had their cases transferred. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  