Jan Gerber Minister Faith Muthambi. (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Public Service and Administration Minister Faith Muthambi will provide the Public Service Commission (PSC) with "all the support and documents as they may require" in its investigation into allegations that she had expanded her private office with 40 staff members - including family members and friends. DA MP Desiree van der Walt laid a complaint a week ago and by Tuesday, PSC chairperson Richard Sizani responded with a letter, stating that they will investigate whether the posts were legally filled. READ: Faith Muthambi faces another investigation "For far too long, Minister Muthambi has 'got away with murder' in her brazen attempt to turn the ministry into an employment agency for the politically-connected few. Money that could have been better spent creating a more accessible public service was diverted to hire excess food aides, drivers and administration assistants," said van der Walt. "Minister Muthambi's behaviour has been enabled by an ineffectual leader of government business, Cyril Ramaphosa, who has turned a blind eye while the rot festered." According to Muthambi's spokesperson Joe Makhafola, the minister "welcomes the approach undertaken by the Democratic Alliance to approach the Public Service Commission to investigate the many spurious allegations levelled against her". 'Baseless allegations' "The ministry has consistently argued that there was nothing of substance in the allegations. Repeating them ad Infinitum did not make them true," he said in a statement. "We are pleased that the Democratic Alliance has decided to explore avenues and platforms available by our democratic architecture. He said it is a welcome departure from DA's usual tactics and "collusion with mainstream media that we have come to expect". "The ministry will provide the Public Service Commission with all the support and documents as they may require in their investigation to put this matter to finality." It is not only the PSC that will scrutinise Muthambi's actions, albeit in her previous capacity as communications minister. 'An incompetent as the communications minister' This week also saw Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Communications resolve to bring finality to "the implementation of recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee on the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) Board Inquiry in relation to the former Minister of Communications, Ms Faith Muthambi". During its meeting on Tuesday, the portfolio committee agreed that the matter was serious and should be finalised urgently. The ad hoc committee found Muthambi to be incompetent as the communications minister and found that she could have contravened legislation, including the Constitution. Furthermore, Parliament's legal services said that Muthambi's testimony before the committee "could be seen as an attempt to mislead the inquiry". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  