Luthando Vikilahle Zimbabwe ex- Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai. (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Acting Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader, Nelson Chamisa has expressed "shock and devastation" following the death of the party's president Morgan Tsvangirai. Tsvangirai, 65, the veteran Zimbabwean opposition leader who fought Robert Mugabe's regime for many years, died on Wednesday after battling against cancer. Tsvangirai, who founded the MDC in 1999, was among the most prominent critics of Mugabe, the long-time authoritarian leader who was ousted from power in November. In an interview with News24, Chamisa said that the MDC was set to meet on Thursday to discuss the way forward after the death of the veteran leader. "We've just received the news, we are conveying a meeting. We're going to see how we are going to move forward tomorrow (Thursday). We're going to issue a statement," said Chamisa. Activists also expressed their shock, with Patson Dzamara saying that although he knew about the former trade unionist's battle with cancer, he had not expected that he would die "before the country crossed into a democratic dispensation that he helped many Zimbabweans believe in". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. "In as much we all knew that he was not well, it's hard for all us. We've lost a train of hope. He led us to believe that we can stand up against tyranny. He inspired all of us with his bravery. He was the first person to stand up for justice and freedom. We've lost our trail blazer. We were not ready. I am hurt, I am sad that he has left this way. But, we accept that God has passed his judgement," said Dzamara. Social media users reacted with fond memories of the veteran leader. Some remembered him as a kind and devoted icon who stood firm for his believes. It’s a dark day. Morgan Tsvangirai lost his brave battle with cancer this evening. The heart breaks with pain. It was a rare privilege and an honour to have the confidence of this icon of the democratic struggle. My thoughts are with his family #RIPMorganTsvangirai The bravest of all politicians of our time has passed on. Morgan Richard Tsvangirai you fought a good fight. You are one of our generational heroes! Our prayers are with the entire family. MHSRIP. Oh shame. Morgan Tsvangirai has passed away... https://t.co/MTC7CvIhzQ I am very sad to hear that Morgan Tsvangirai has lost his brave final battle. He will remain one of the giants of the long struggle to bring democracy to #Zimbabwe. I will remember him for his courage, humility, humour and relentless determination to bring freedom to Zim. RIP MT BREAKING: MDC-T leader Morgan Tsvangirai has lost his long battle to colon cancer. His wife Elizabeth Macheka among those who just confirmed. He was a brave fighter for democracy. A hero of our time. A legend! RIP #Save @mrtsvangirai BREAKING: Zimbabwe opposition leader and former prime minister Morgan Tsvangirai is dead as confirmed by MDC-T's @EngMudzuri.Rest in Prefect Peace Sir. pic.twitter.com/H8vo3KFSLE "He moved an era." Read this moving tribute to Morgan Tsvangirai from @PastorEvanLive, written shortly before his death. https://t.co/LXiPLUrsxP Morgan Tsvangirai, A doyen of democracy and justice in our time. Thank you for making it possible for people like me to find the courage to say ENOUGH IS ENOUGH, HATICHADA, HATICHATYA. Zimbabwe owes you a great debt. REST IN POWER mukuru #RIPMorganTsvangirai hambani kahle pic.twitter.com/wGICnsZGdZ The colossus of the struggle for democracy in Zimbabwe & beyond has fallen! The people's hero is gone. May your dream materialize in our lifetime. Thank you for making me believe that change is possible, the courage & to fight for it, & an opportunity to. RIP Morgan Tsvangirai pic.twitter.com/ztNH6phu3D Watching news with great sadness. Zimbabwe has suffered a tragic loss tonight. Morgan Tsvangirai was a beacon of hope for so many during Zimbabwe’s darkest days. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. pic.twitter.com/5ojWlPsEaQ 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  