The country remains on tenterhooks following the postponement of SONA and the national focus has now shifted to the ANC to see what their next move is in ensuring a smooth transition of leadership. Jump to
                    bottom ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu and SG Ace Magashule's briefing to media after #ANCcaucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/uUSlHpaeWB Mthembu and Magashule leave without saying much or answering any other substantial questions. Still no decision communicated on #Zuma, nor caucus decision on #recall, #motionofnoconfidence or #impeachment. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/j2EgrCf3Wk Mthembu says they met with journalists as a courtesy. "We know you guys will take chances and ask things that weren't even brought up in #ANCcaucus. This conference is closed, thank you." @TeamNews24 Ace Magashule confirms, no decision on Zuma yet.  Magashule says a decision has not been communicated on #Zuma. @TeamNews24 Magashule says ANC caucus  meeting today was just to say hello and how are you and bringing confidence to society.  @TeamNews24 Magashule and Mthembu says they don't normally do this. "There are just a few issues the SG will like to speak to." @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/JAktsxY5cj Ace Magushule and Jackson Mthembu just went into the chief whips' office. #ANCcaucus #caucus @TeamNews24 SPOTTED: Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma  ANC MP Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and other MPs leaving the venue. #ANCcaucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/sdhfGNXPBo SPOTTED: Ace Magashule  ANC SG @DrAceMagashule and communications director @KhuselaS after #ANCcaucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/eWPEqfhvRC The ANC are seemingly gearing up to make an announcement.  A couple MPs decline to comment. Looks like the party will be saying something soon. #ANCcaucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/o2gUxEuPMD SPOTTED: Faith Muthambi  Minister @faithmuthambi and deputy minister @MahambehlalaT after #ANCcaucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/M4hcXHLxUw While Ramaphosa and Zuma fight over the Presidency, corruption continues, and people remain without hope for any immediate improvement in their daily lives. - @MmusiMaimane #ZumaExithttps://t.co/U22FwYvngB Deputy minister Ben Martins leaving #ANCcaucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/VnBRqI7Jkm MPs now filing out of the Olf Assembly. The ANC looks set to have a presser outside the venue. #ANCcaucus @TeamNews24 More MPs spotted leaving the ANC caucus meeting.  Lots of ANC MP's leaving #ANCcaucus now @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/b1icHfAsMw Opposition parties plan national shutdown to force Zexit Opposition parties are planning a national shutdown to protest against the long and drawn-out process leading to President Jacob Zuma's resignation. Economic Freedom Fighters spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi told News24 that the party would announce details of a planned national shutdown later on Thursday. "It's not just the EFF. We are planning a national shutdown that will be joined by everyone. We will make an announcement." United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa said opposition leaders were discussing the date. He however, said it would most likely happen on February 22. "We want this to be a national discussion with South Africans to send a strong message under the hashtag #RemoveZuma. It's clear that the ANC is failing to remove Zuma. They are still trying to deceive South Africans with this talk of a transition. What is that? It's high time we take this to the streets," Holomisa said.  Still no action yet outside the Old Assembly where the #ANCcaucus is having a meeting. Earlier they were addressed by ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. #caucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/BV8VHFqVnf It seems the ANC is preparing for a press briefing once #ANCcaucus ends. #Caucus still going on inside. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/LiWpsCe6kG OFFICIAL STATEMENT: Parliament must schedule Motion of No Confidence for Tuesday By Mmusi Maimane - Leader of the Democratic Alliance South Africa cannot continue to be held in limbo while Cyril Ramaphosa and Jacob Zuma, and their respective factions, continue to fight over the terms of Zuma’s exit. We need a swift resolution to this impasse as soon as possible. As public servants, it is our duty to place the best interests of the country before party political interests. While Ramaphosa and Zuma fight over the Presidency, corruption continues, and people remain without hope for any immediate improvement in their daily lives. It is for that reason that I have consulted with the leadership of the EFF, and we have resolved to call on the Speaker of the National Assembly, Baleka Mbete, to schedule an urgent sitting of Parliament this coming Tuesday, 13 February 2018, for the Motion of No Confidence in Jacob Zuma to be debated and voted on. A letter from the EFF will be sent to her office reflecting this urgent call. This will allow for Parliament to debate and vote on the EFF’s Motion of No Confidence in Jacob Zuma. Parliament elects a President, and Parliament removes a President. It is not done behind closed doors at Luthuli House. Cyril Ramaphosa is currently the Leader of Government Business in Parliament. It would be remiss of him to neglect his responsibility in this regard, and therefore I call on Mr Ramaphosa to support this call, and to ensure that the Motion of No Confidence is debated without delay. Moreover, there must be an urgent sitting of Parliament’s Programming Committee, in order for Parliament’s agenda to be finalised, and so that the work of the people can continue. Lastly, we flatly reject any amnesty agreement or special deal for President Zuma. He is not above the law, and must still face the 783 criminal charges illegally dropped over a decade ago and which the courts have now revived. Cyril Ramaphosa cannot talk anti-corruption, yet broker an amnesty deal for the corrupt in the ANC. Any attempt to do so will be opposed with everything we’ve got. Jacob Zuma will retire in prison, where he should have been years ago.  Sate security minister Bongani Bongo leaving #ANCcaucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/ScpY8E1B96 #ANCcaucus continues, seems that some members just stepped out while moving on to next point on agenda. Ministers Des van Rooyen, Senzeni Zokwana and @mgigaba having a chat @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/PnQUVmv3BD Nkosazana @DlaminiZuma just left ANC caucus meeting @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/n7jISQtCnb Some ANC members have been spotted leaving the caucus meeting, where singing can be heard from inside Parliament's Old Assembly chamber.  Some ANC MP's starting to leave caucus, while others are singing inside Old Assembly Chamber @TeamNews24 ANC truck spotted in the Cape Town CBD. (Jenni Evans/News24)  #ANCcaucus started roughly an hour ago at 10:20. They are still busy with the first agenda item: ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa addressing MPs behind closed doors. #caucus @TeamNews24 The scene outside the Old Assembly chamber. Bodyguards wait as ANC MPs meet. #ANCcaucus #caucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/avlo2Rug8k Police Minister Fikile Mbalula arriving late for the ANC caucus meeting.  .@MbalulaFikile on his way to ANC caucus meeting @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/cUbbQh2OFC DA leader Mmusi Maimane calls for an urgent sitting of Parliament.  Parliament must have an urgent sitting next week. We are not spectators to the Anc shambles. This is South Africa for us, either remove Zuma or let’s vote in another president. Let’s move with urgency. It’s for our people ICYMI:  Last night, President Zuma and I began direct discussions on the transition and matters relating to his position as the President of the Republic. The discussions were constructive & lay the basis for a speedy resolution of the matter in the interests of the country & its people. “#Zuma basically said to us: ‘I’m not going anywhere. [I’m] not convinced by you guys so I’m not going to resign. You can go back and report to your national working committee and the #ANCNEC that I said I’m not resigning.’” https://t.co/aZ8K6UAHh4 pic.twitter.com/G9bmdWCYl5 LISTEN | Mashatile: 'We will recall Zuma'  Ministerial bodyguards waiting outside the Old Assembly chamber while #ANCcaucus is underway. #caucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/ADJvRmcFLg According to the agenda, rules committee chair Richard Mdakane is also due to update the #ANCcaucus on the progress in developing rules to #impeach a president, as ordered by ConCourt. Committee will meet again in a week's time. #caucus @TeamNews24 Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete  was also seen entering earlier. #ANCcaucus #caucus. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/fplJQ92urw Cyril Ramaphosa will no longer be attending the build-up to the Nelson Mandela centenary celebrations due to "pressing commitments". OFFICIAL STATEMENT: UPDATED PROGRAMME OF THE NATIONAL OFFICIALS AHEAD OF THE LAUNCH MANDELA CENTENARY CELEBRATIONS The African National Congress will launch the celebrations of the centennial year in honour of the late Isithwalandwe/Seaparankoe, President Nelson Mandela on Sunday, 11 February 2018. The day also marks 28 years since the release of the President Nelson Mandela from the Victor Verster prison in 1990. Members of the media are advised to note the following changes to the program of National Officials on Friday 9th February. The President of the ANC, Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa, will no longer participate in the build up programmes on Friday 9th February and Saturday 10th February due to other pressing commitments. The President will however address the #Mandela100 Rally on Sunday 11th February 2018. The National Chairperson of the ANC, Comrade Gwede Mantashe, will not participate in the build up programmes on Friday 9th February and Saturday 10th February due to deployment to Mpumalanga province. The National Officials are still to advise whether the visit to Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu will continue in the absence of the President. In the event it continues, the visit will NOT be open to the media. Thus the program for the National Officials for Friday, 9th February 2018 will unfold as follows: Deputy President Comrade David Mabuza Date: Friday, 09 February 2018 ACTIVITIES: 06h30 – 08h30: Blitz and Walkabout at Nolungile train station and Site C taxi rank 10h00 – 12h00: Meeting with the transport industry and local small businesses at Site C, Blue Hall 14h00 – 16h00: Community meeting Secretary General Comrade Ace Magashule Date: Friday, 09 February 2018 ACTIVITIES: 07h00 – 08h30: Blitz and walkabout at the Philippi Train Station 10h00- 12h00: Door to door in Philippi Wards; 33, 34, 36, 39 and 80 14h00  - 16h00: Community meeting and visit to Dora Tamana Site in Hangberg, Imizamo Yethu Deputy Secretary General Comrade Jessie Duarte Date: Friday, 09 February 2018 ACTIVITIES: 06h30 – 08h30: Blitz and walkabout at the Nyanga Taxi Rank 10h00 – 12h00: Door to door and visit to the Family of Cde Mildred Holo Treasurer General Comrade Paul Mashatile Date: Friday, 09 February 2018 ACTIVITIES: 07h00 – 08h30: Blitz and walkabout at the Belville Taxi Rank 10h00 – 12h00: Door to door in Wards 84, 85, 86 16h30 – 18h30: Meeting with unemployed people at the Nomzamo Community Hall, Strand  ANC Parliamentary caucus meets The ANC's Parliamentary caucus will meet on Thursday for a special caucus meeting. The caucus was called for 10:00 following recent events in Parliament, including the postponement of the State of the Nation Address (SONA), African National Congress spokesperson Nonceba Mhlauli said. The contents of caucus meetings however, will not be disclosed as they are closed meetings for members, Mhlauli added. It is not usual for caucuses to sit before the SONA, usually considered the "opening of Parliament". Reports are that ANC MPs will discuss its options ahead of an anticipated announcement from ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa on the future of President Jacob Zuma.  #ANCcaucus has now begun and the hustle and bustle has died down outside. #caucus @TeamNews24 Small Business Minister Lindiwe Zulu stops to tell journalists that they're here for further clarity on the directives from ANC leadership, if any. "We still have work to do and we will take direction from the ANC leadership," she says. #caucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/4mQe05kXh5 The apparent agenda of the special ANC caucus meeting.  The agenda of the #ANCcaucus meeting. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa is due to address ANC MPs. #caucus @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/95GpV03DJ7 More ministers entering the Old Assembly chamber for special #caucus meeting, including Lindiwe Zulu, Bathabile Dlamini, Faith Muthambi and Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/QcyRMmkXaj ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule spotted heading into the meeting.  ANC secretary general Ace Magushule is here too. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu declines to comment. "This is a closed meeting of the ANC caucus. Don't take chances," he tells journalists. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/9QfSFdkuwh Various MPs have declined to answer questions on the nature of the meeting. "I don't know," says public enterprises minister Lynne Brown. "All I can say is good morning," says smiling police committee chair Francois Beukman. @TeamNews24 The ANC's Parliamentary caucus will meet on Thursday for a special caucus meeting while it waits for any developments between President Jacob Zuma and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. @TeamNews24 A special ANC caucus meeting has been called to reportedly discuss Zuma's future, among other pressing issues.  Various MPs have declined to answer questions on the nature of the meeting. "I don't know," says public enterprises minister Lynne Brown. "All I can say is good morning," says smiling police committee chair Francois Beukman. @TeamNews24 ANALYSIS: South Africa's future hinges on Ramaphosa's strategic skills (Jakkie Cilliers) South Africa’s 2018 State of the Nation Address by the president of South Africa has been postponed. This unprecedented step makes it clear that the country is seeing the final days of Jacob Zuma as president although it may take a day or a week or two before things are finalised. What’s important is that Zuma isn’t allowed to detract from the momentum that newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa has started to build. This has included a successful trip to Davos where he unequivocally pulled the carpet from under the nuclear power programme favoured by Zuma. Ramaphosa has been working diligently to corral Zuma’s remaining freedom of action. Zuma was finally persuaded to establish a commission of enquiry into state capture and Ramaphosa started restoring credibility to the management of state owned enterprises.  ICYMI: No date yet for SONA 2018, but budget speech will take place on February 21 The impasse on a new date for this year's State of the Nation Address (SONA) will not affect the delivery of the budget speech on February 21. This was the outcome of Wednesday's meeting between the Speaker of the National Assembly Baleka Mbete and the chief whips of the parties represented in Parliament. No new date could be set for SONA, but there was an agreement that the budget speech would definitely go ahead on February 21, regardless of any change in the Presidency. Mbete and chairperson of the National Council of Provinces Thandi Modise announced the unprecedented move to postpone SONA on Tuesday, citing "that there is little likelihood of an uneventful joint sitting of Parliament this coming Thursday".  ICYMI: Parliament: Nothing to see here Nothing to see or hear here – this was the general vibe around Parliament and Tuynhuys on Wednesday as the country held its collective breath waiting for news on President Jacob Zuma's future. While journalists set up camp under a tree opposite the entrance to the National Assembly on Wednesday morning, Speaker Baleka Mbete was inside the building with party chief whips for a special chief whips' forum meeting. This meeting couldn't set a new date for the State of the Nation Address (SONA), but there was an agreement that the budget speech would definitely go ahead on February 21, regardless of any change in the Presidency. Meanwhile, at Tuynhuys, Zuma was holding Cabinet committee meetings with select government clusters this week, with ANC president and deputy president of the country Cyril Ramaphosa also in attendance.  ICYMI: Ramaphosa saved Zuma from humiliation – ANC Veterans' League The ANC's Veterans' League (ANCVL) has praised ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa for stepping up to save his predecessor and leader of the country President Jacob Zuma from being recalled by the party's national executive committee (NEC) meeting. The ANC announced late on Tuesday evening that the emergency NEC meeting, which was called following an urgent national working committee meeting, had been postponed. The NEC , which is highest decision-making body between conferences in the ANC, was expected to deliberate over Zuma's presidency following growing dissatisfaction with his leadership. On Sunday he reportedly refused to resign when asked to do so by the party's top six officials. "The cancelled national executive committee meeting could, in most probability, have resulted in the president being recalled immediately. His recall would have humiliated him and, in the process, dented the country's image and the ANC brand," said ANCVL president Snuki Zikalala.  ICYMI: Ramaphosa, Zuma meet to discuss transition ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa on Wednesday allayed fears surrounding speculation about President Jacob Zuma's future as the head of state. In a statement, he said he met with Zuma on Tuesday night to discuss the transition and matters relating to his position as state president. "The discussions were constructive and lay the basis for a speedy resolution of the matter in the interests of the country and its people," said Ramaphosa. He said it was agreed to postpone a special meeting of the ANC's national executive committee that was scheduled to take place on Wednesday afternoon. "This will enable President Zuma and myself to conclude our discussions and report back to our organisation and the country in the coming days."  Jump to
                top