Amanda Khoza President Jacob Zuma. (Walso Swiegers, Bloomberg) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – The ANC must see President Jacob Zuma's resignation as an opportunity to rebuild the organisation, the South African National Civic Organisation said in the early hours of Thursday morning. "The ANC must up its ante and maximise the opportunity presented by Zuma’s resignation to exploit the new chapter of renewed hope as it mobilises South Africans to unite behind its shared vision of unity and economic recovery," said Sanco national spokesperson Jabu Mahlangu. LIVE: Goodbye Zuma, Hello President Cyril Mahlangu said that the resignation had saved the ANC the anguish of having to take the unprecedented step of voting with the opposition for a motion of no confidence against its deployee in Parliament on Thursday. "The work to rebuild South Africa must begin in earnest and no effort spared to intensify the fight against corruption that has eroded public confidence in institutions that should serve our people," he said. Read: ANC will give Zuma reasons for recalling him "The challenge going forward is to clean the image of the ANC and government at all levels and to ensure that the party delivers on its mandate to improve the lives of our people." Mahlangu added that finalisation of the state capture investigation had to be prioritised by the incoming president Cyril Ramaphosa and the NEC leadership collective. "Ramaphosa has shown great statesmanship in the manner he handled the entire fiasco. He is the type of leader needed to take South Africa out of the current quagmire," he said. "No stone must be left unturned. Looted resources must be recouped and all players and beneficiaries that participated in treacherous activities face the wrath of the law," Mahlangu said. He said a shake-up of the country's dysfunctional law enforcement agencies was also needed. "Their credibility and integrity must be restored."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  