Boipelo Mere Learners were send home while parents sat in a meeting with the teachers to work on a way foward at Delportshoop Gekombineerde skool.Photo: Charne Kemp Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An oversight visit by the Portfolio Committee on Education, Sport, Arts and Culture to the Delportshoop Combined School is crucial following the recent unrest at the school due to intimidation, violence and protests. The concerns were raised by the DA after unrest at the school due to the school being accused of racism and refusal to accept 106 additional learners of the Dikga­tlong Secondary School this year. Schooling at the two schools in the area have been seriously affected by the Northern Cape Department of Education’s decision to do this move, as the school, which is currently reported to have 500 learners, requested additional facilities from the department before the other learners start. Learners were sent home on Tuesday (06/02) morning following the protest, whereby at least four staff members were injured and tyres were burned in front of the school. The learners and community reportedly started the unrest after arriving at the school, only to be turned back before the department’s response for more resources and extra security. The parents and teachers are planning to hand over a memorandum of their demands to the department on Wednesday (07/02). The DA, on the other hand, blames the department for the chaos and accuses the department of failing to do a swot analysis before sending learners to the Delportshoop School. “For example, due to the difference in subject choices between the two schools, senior learners of the Dikgatlong Secondary School are compelled to take subjects with which they are not familiar,” says Safiyia Stanfley, DA provincial spokesperson on education in the Northern Cape. “This is especially unfair to the Gr. 12 learners who are expected to write their National Senior Certificate exams at the end of the year. It is absolutely unacceptable to negatively interfere with the academic success and future prospects of our senior learners in this way.” Geoffrey van der Merwe, the media liaison officer to the MEC of Education, could not be reached for comment, as his phone was off. An enquiry has been emailed to him. A follow-up story is planned for the next edition of Northern Cape Express.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.