Khosi Biyela PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  It took just one day for Generations star Mandla
Hlatshwayo’s alleged killers to be arrested and two weeks for Rhythm City actor
Dumi Masilela’s hijackers to be tracked down. Yet three years after Senzo Meyiwa was gunned down in cold blood,
police don’t seem to be any closer to making arrests than they were in the
first few days after his death. The thought of these crimes being solved so
quickly runs through Sam Meyiwa’s mind daily. The Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates goalkeeper – the
Meyiwa family’s sole breadwinner – was gunned down by armed robbers at the
Vosloorus home of his girlfriend, singer Kelly Khumalo. All they want is
closure, a devastated Sam tells DRUM. The thought of his son’s killers still roaming the streets,
free to spend time with the people they love, breaks his heart. “It’s really frustrating for us that after so many years we
still don’t know who killed him and why,” he says. “This makes me wonder about
my son’s killers . . . they must be wealthy and well-connected to be able to
hide the truth so well and for so long.” The years since Senzo’s death have taken their toll. Ntombifuthi
has suffered from recurring health issues related to high blood pressure since
her goalkeeper son was killed. “It has been hard for us,” Sam says. “The only time I
don’t think of Senzo is when I am asleep. But I also struggle to fall asleep.
Our lives are full of pain and sorrow, but we soldier on. I cry every time I
think of him. I cannot rest until his killers are found.” The family isn’t only experiencing emotional and physical
difficulties. They’re financially strapped since Senzo’s death. He was the sole
provider and they haven’t been able to do the necessary customary rituals to
ensure his spirit is resting in peace. They hope to do a ceremony to bring his spirit back home but
meanwhile they’re living from day to day. “We are struggling, sometimes we
don’t have food,” the elderly Sam says. He feels they’ve been forgotten by those who made plenty of
promises in the wake of Senzo’s death. During April last year, Premier Soccer
League chairman Irvin Khoza made an announcement that Senzo’s R4-million insurance
had been paid out. Half was due to Orlando Pirates and the other half to the
Meyiwa family. PSL players and officials are covered for injuries, and untimely
death, in the insurance for the league. But Sam says they haven’t received a
cent of that money yet. Nor has Senzo’s wife, Mandisa. “I talk to Mandisa
often,” he says. “She hasn’t received the money. At least she’s working and
she’s able to take care of her daughter.” Sam claims every attempt to contact the PSL boss has failed
and he’s growing resentful. Irvin had not responded to requests for comment at
the time of going to print. Sam’s pain is so great he can’t watch Irvin on television
anymore. “I change the channel because seeing him breaks my heart.”
Senzo’s younger brother, Sifiso, helps the family keeps their heads above
water, Sam says. “He’s the only one working, and it’s hard for him. He helps
where he can but he has his own life. Senzo was taking care of us and we were
not struggling at all,” he adds. “He looked after us.” When asked how the case is
progressing, police spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo says are no new leads in Senzo’s
case. Fans were devastated when they heard how Senzo died. Two armed men
stormed into Kelly’s house, demanded cellphones and shot the soccer player in
front of witnesses. Zanukuhle Mbatha was initially arrested for the murder, but
he was released from custody in November 2015 due to lack of evidence. The case has now been referred to as a “cold case” by some
but Sam says he won’t stop speaking about it. Some people have told him to
quiet down, he says, but he refuses to be silenced – he wants justice to be
served. He also won’t be silenced by Kelly, he says. He alleges the
singer sent him a lawyer’s letter, threatening to take legal action if he
doesn’t stop talking about her in interviews. Sam has had a hostile
relationship with Kelly since Senzo died. “I will not keep quiet because when I
am quiet nothing happens. She also speaks about my son.” Kelly refused to comment on the difficult relationship with
Sam or his claims about her legal action. “With all due respect, I have nothing to say.” The songbird,
however, did offer a glimpse into her pain when she detailed Senzo’s last day
in her Up Close and Personal with Kelly Khumalo concert in Johannesburg. “Senzo ran into my hands. I thought he was trying to protect
me from the intruders but he had blood on his chest and back – that’s when I
knew he’d been shot,” she told the audience. “We couldn’t even wait for the ambulance to arrive. We
rushed him to hospital. I did everything I could. I didn’t want him to think I
gave up on him.” Sam doesn’t want
anyone to think he’s given up on Senzo either. He believes his son’s death
provided a platform for others to have a moment in the spotlight but nothing
concrete has happened since. In October last year, former acting national police
commissioner Khomotso Phahlane told parliament the police didn’t need help in
solving the murder. “The SAPS is more than capable of dealing with this
matter,” he said at the time. But months later, he was moved from the portfolio
and minister Fikile Mbalula took up the challenge, vowing to find Senzo’s
killers. “It’s one of my priorities to crack this case with the
team,” he said during a parade at the SAPS Academy in Pretoria. “I’m very
positive we’ll make arrests but I don’t want to tip them [the killers] off by
divulging the plans we are going to use. Discussing our strategy we will give
them ideas to evade arrest.” But Sam wanted more than empty promises, so last
month he confronted the minister during a visit to the Glebelands Hostel in
Durban, pleading with him to solve the case. “I spoke to him [Mbalula] and he promised to assist. I don’t
want to rush him because he is new in the portfolio and there is a lot he is
doing,” Sam says. But still. The promises of those who are meant to serve and
protect mean little for the family desperately seeking closure. All they want
is to be able to go to sleep, knowing their son’s killers are paying for their
crime. *This article was previously published on Drum magazine. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  