Kaveel Singh SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban - Police training and methods of investigation have come under scrutiny at the Moerane Commission into political killings in KwaZulu-Natal. A panel of six senior KZN and national police officials have been answering questions on how they have approached the solving of murders. Major General Hendrik Chauke, the head of human resources development where officers are trained, told the commission that a lack of training was not responsible for solving political murders. "I disagree that a lack of training is the reason contributing to the killings." He said the profile of the Umlazi police station, which covers the infamous Glebelands Hostel where killings are rampant, had many officers who had undergone "resolving crime courses". "There was no neglecting of Umlazi because all the stations have trained individuals. I dispute the claim that members are not well trained or know how to do their jobs." The concern that low-ranking officers were taking over high-profile cases was also unfounded, he added. "All officers in those positions undergo training. In addition, officers who are in those ranks could still have a lot of experience. They could be in that position for many years. It is just that there are not enough vacancies for them to be promoted." Prosecution-driven investigations The commission also probed the concept of prosecution-driven investigations, where prosecutors and detectives work together to combat criminals. Major General Pitso Ramatsoele said they encouraged commanders to meet with prosecutors. "We promote this prosecutor-guided method of investigation. If we do that, our successes will be even more. They do their best to assist us," he said. He added that in principle, both arms of the law working together "is the best". "If you speak to prosecutors from [the] start, it is best. If this method is applied, one can make a breakthrough faster." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  