Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba delivering his Budget Speech.  (Roger Bosch, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  South Africans, I stand before you in
humility. I recognise that I am a servant of the people and that I have let you
down. The budget that will follow and that I will deliver today is largely one
that is a result of government and ANC mismanagement and corruption. And I
recognise that we are asking you to fund the folly. You have already paid once by being tax
compliant, and yes, we are asking you to pay once again and that is unfair. I am unworthy of the honour of addressing
you. I have been found wanting by the highest court of the land and even if I
challenge that, as it stands, the law has ruled that I am not to be trusted. I
understand how difficult it must be to accept the budget at my word. Because my
word is tainted. As am I. But I believe in South Africa. More than
that I believe in its people. South Africans are resilient and kind and naïve
and of pure spirit. And I believe in the ANC. I believe that the ANC can return
to the values that it once stood for and I believe that corruption, arrogance
and laziness will reflect the ANC of the last few years, but not of the future. I intend to make things right. I beg for
the opportunity to prove that I value the position that I have been trusted
with. I intend to disclose the full nature of the corruption without reserve,
despite the personal consequences. But this is not the time. That is for
later. Today I ask you to suspend your valid
scepticism and against your rational judgment to trust that we have the best
interest of this country at heart. Today I ask you to believe in the integrity
of our new president, who although human, is a man of honour. And I ask that you
trust in his leadership and his desire to change the course of South African
history. Today I ask you for one more chance. We have walked a long road. And although we
have taken many wrong turns along the way, we are mindful and clear as to where
the journey must take us. We have chosen a dangerous route and we nearly
destroyed all we had built. Studies indicate that the greatest impact
on people breaking the law is the environment. A corrupt environment leads to
further corruption. And we have created that. We are responsible for the mess
that we have created. But South Africans have demanded more and did not tolerate this. Together with the press, that must remain free, the people
of the country have demanded better. You have demanded that we take a different
road. And we have heard you. Getting back there will not be easy. It
will be costly and painful. And we are asking you to, once again, help us to make
this country one for all of its citizens. Fellow South Africans, if I have sent you a request for a Candy Crush life, I apologise. But we need to reach the next level together. Let us begin. - Feldman is the author of Carry on Baggage and Tightrope and the afternoon drive show presenter on Chai FM.Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   