Lhola Amira Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gugulethu born Lhola Amira will be amongst artists showcasing their works at the Investec Cape Town Art Fair taking place at the International Convention Centre from February 16-18. The artist Lhola Amira was borne from the body of curator and academic Khanyisile Mbongwa, both Women share a plural existence, co-habiting the same body. In essence, Lhola Amira highlights new manifestations of inequality. Her practice speaks of the survival of Black individuals, in particular Black Women, in a world dominated by white women and white men. Khanyisile Mbongwa is a founding member of both the artist collective Gugulective and Vasiki Creative Citizens. She is currently completing an Inter-disciplinary Masters Degree in Performance Art, Public Art and Public Spheres at the University of Cape Town in affiliation with the Institute of Creative Arts (ICA). Now in its sixth edition, Investec Cape Town Art Fair (ICTAF) continues to work alongside a growing number of local and international galleries who support the artistic practices of emerging and established artists from around the world, with the introduction of a new section, SOLO, to the fair. ICTAF2018 will run from 16-18 February 2018 at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC). Nontobeko Ntombela has been appointed as the curator of the inaugural iteration of SOLO, working alongside Fair Curator Tumelo Mosaka and the ICTAF team. SOLO will focus on the production of women artists, offering different perspectives of the widespread socio-political issues faced by women in both public and private spheres, while also highlighting their contribution to the art world. Artists that will be showcased in the section are Lhola Amira (South Africa) represented by SMAC (Woodstock, Stellenbosch, Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa), Maïmouna Guerresi (Senegal/Italy) represented by Officine dell’Immagine (Milan, Italy), Pamela Phatsimo Sunstrum (Botswana) represented by Tiwani Contemporary (London, United Kingdom), Stacey Gillian Abe (Uganda) represented by Afriart Gallery (Kampala, Uganda), Parul Thacker (India) represented by Amar Gallery (London, United Kingdom), Keyezua (Angola) represented by MOV’ART (Luanda, Angola), Lucinda Mudge (South Africa) represented by Everard Read CIRCA Gallery (Cape Town, Johannesburg and Franschoek, South Africa; London United, Kingdom), Kimathi Mafafo (South Africa) represented by EBONY/CURATED (Cape Town, South Africa), Ingrid Bolton (South Africa) represented by Berman Contemporary (Johannesburg, South Africa) and Buhlebezwe Siwani (South Africa) represented by WHATIFTHEWORLD (Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa). “I’m interested in the concept of what it means as a female artist to have this extended self through art,” says Ntombela. “The artists we are working with have explored this in many diverse ways.” The chosen pieces are all about “upsetting the norm and upsetting the image of women.” Ntombela has played an active role in the art world for more than a decade. In light of the success of Investec Cape Town Art Fair and the recent opening of the Zeitz MOCAA she says she is excited about the contribution Cape Town is paying to the art world: “There are interesting connections happening. Cape Town as a city has shown incredible growth and has shown that it has its own muscle to participate in the art economy.” Ntombela has produced numerous critically-engaged exhibitions and projects, including a collaboration with artist Reshma Chhiba, The Two Talking Yonis, a series of installations “exploring the notion of feminine energy and the creation of alternative identities for women within current patriarchal systems”. Also curated by Ntombela is Fragile Archive at the Johannesburg Art Gallery, which re-staged Gladys Mgudlandlu’s first commercial exhibition and navigated her archive, public acclaim, and positioning within South African art histories in order to examine the construction of artists’ biographies. ICTAF runs from 16 to 18 February 2018. For more information, visit investeccapetownartfair.co.za. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  