Iavan Pijoos Magistrate's court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bloemfontein – Ten people, including three police officers, who were arrested for allegedly supplying a syndicate with commercial explosives, are to appear in court on Thursday. The 10 people were arrested on Tuesday, following a joint operation between the Hawks' National Bureau for Illegal Firearms Control and Priority Violent Crime Unit, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) and Crime Intelligence. Read: 3 Free State cops arrested in Hawks, IPID operation Hawks spokesperson Captain Ndivhuwo Mulamu said on Thursday that the operation was conducted in the Free State towns of Thabong, Odendaalsrust, Virginia, and Theunissen, following four months of intense investigation. Undercover officers bought a substantial number of explosives from the suspects, Mulamu added. "The suspects are alleged to have been supplying criminal syndicates with explosives commonly used to bomb ATMs, cash-in-transit vehicles and vaults for cash at institutions other than the banks," Mulamu said. On Wednesday, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula applauded police for the arrests. Acting national head of the Hawks, Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata, described the arrest as a victory. "These arrests are indicative of the effectiveness of collaboration between law enforcement agencies in the fight against organised criminal behaviour," Matakata said. She said she was "extremely disappointed" that three police officers were amongst those arrested. "Breaking the very laws we are sworn to uphold is absolutely not acceptable," she said. The 10 people are expected to appear in the Fochville and Virginia magistrate's courts. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  