Joice Mujuru (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - Joice Mujuru’s party in Zimbabwe has rejected as “unfounded
and baseless” reports that she will join with former first lady Grace Mugabe
and her allies to challenge President Emmerson Mnangagwa in polls this year. Mujuru, leader of the National People’s Party (NPP) met
Robert Mugabe last week, fuelling speculation he was tacitly giving his backing
to the former vice president. A state newspaper, the Sunday Mail claimed Mugabe had “given
his blessing to the creation of an opposition political party that will bring
together G40 and the NPP”. G40 is the faction of the ruling party that backed
Grace to become vice president. Most of its members were expelled from
Zanu-PF in the wake of the November 15 military takeover that ended with
Mugabe’s resignation and Mnangagwa taking the reins of power. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. “National People’s Party wishes to categorically dismiss the
rumour that Dr Joice Teurai Ropa Mujuru has entered into a political pact with
the former first lady Mrs Grace Mugabe with the contempt it deserves,” Mujuru’s
spokesperson Gift Nyandoro, said in a statement. “For one to try and twist facts that the meeting was about
formation of a political pact only reflects kwashiorkor thinking of the highest
order,” the spokesperson added. Mob threw stones Mugabe sacked Mujuru in 2014 following weeks of vilification
by Grace, who accused the then vice president of plotting to topple her
husband. On Tuesday, Mugabe apologised to Mujuru and said he had been misled
about her intentions, according to sources who attended the meeting. The NPP spokesperson repeated his party’s claim that Zanu-PF
supporters were behind an attack on Mujuru in Harare on Thursday. Mujuru and
several NPP members were injured when a mob threw stones at them in Harare’s
Glenview district. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  