Caryn Dolley Suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack in the dock in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court. (Caryn Dolley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - A hand grenade, which was allegedly going to be used by a group under suspected underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack, is probably being stored in a club, the Cape Town Magistrate's Court heard on Wednesday. "On April 28, 2017, information was received that the Modack group is in possession of a M26 hand grenade, which they plan to use against the Lifman group. "This hand grenade has not been found yet and information is that it is being kept at one of the clubs under the security of the Modack group," a statement by Lieutenant Colonel Peter Janse Viljoen of the Western Cape Hawks said. His statement was read out during Modack's bail application on Wednesday. The "Lifman group" Janse Viljoen referred to, is a security group involving controversial businessman Mark Lifman, who is said to be Modack's rival. READ: 'I will destroy you': Steroid King's threat to Mark Lifman before his murder Modack is accused of extortion and intimidation alongside Carl Lakay, Ashley Fields, Colin Booysen – suspected Sexy Boys gang boss Jerome Booysen's brother - and Jacques Cronje. They face charges relating to the nightclub security industry in that they allegedly took over security operations at clubs and restaurants, forcing owners to pay them. The group was arrested on December 15 and lodged a bail application shortly afterwards. Janse Viljoen's statement, which was read out during the application on Wednesday said that, based on detailed billing and phone conversations, Modack was "in contact with various high-ranking police officers, in excess of ten". For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld nightclub security takeover, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked He said it was unknown if Modack was a registered informant. Informants usually had one handler. "The information suggest that there is a possible corrupt relationship between Modack and some of these high-ranking officers and that he plays a role with them to further his criminal activities," Janse Viljoen's statement said. "He plays them off against each other." Janse Viljoen said, after Modack was arrested in Worcester in November in a case involving debt collection and which was withdrawn, he had phoned Major General Tiyo. This was in reference to Mzwandile Tiyo, who heads up the Western Cape's Crime Intelligence division. ALSO READ: Uncertainty about future of detective head who allegedly worked with Modack "At this stage it's unknown what role Major General Tiyo played, if any, but it's strange that Modack phone [sic] the General as soon as he is arrested," Janse Viljoen's statement said. Other statements read out in court on Wednesday revealed that Modack allegedly also tried to extort several clubs in Gauteng, including The Grand in Sandton. Earlier on Wednesday, the investigating officer in the extortion case, Charl Kinnear, said someone from national Crime Intelligence on Friday let police know that Modack allegedly planned to have him, prosecutor Esna Erasmus, and police officers Major General Jeremy Vearey and a Captain Jaftha murdered. However, Modack's legal representative Edwin Grobler said this was false information. The bail application continues. NOTE: This story has been updated to reflect that the statement referred to in court and in this article was that of Lieutenant Colonel Peter Janse Viljoen, and not Warrant Officer Vincent Saunders, of a Gauteng police investigating unit, as initially stated. Saunders made a separate statement in the same case. News24 apologises for the error. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  