WATCH: Mnangagwa govt 'harassing Mugabe family on a daily basis', says former aide Johannesburg – Zimbabwe's former education minister has claimed in an interview with SABCthat President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government is "harassing" former president Robert Mugabe's family "on a daily basis". Mugabe, who was ousted from power in November, was last seen in public when he visited a Singapore hospital in December during a trip for a medical check-up. The soon to be 94-year-old ex-president was seen leaving a lift in Gleneagles Hospital in downtown Singapore, wearing a white shirt and black trousers, and accompanied by eight people. For more on this story click here Zim shifts from Mugabe era policies as Mnangagwa govt offers remaining white farmers 99-year land leases Harare – Zimbabwe’s land ministry has issued a directive that would see an end to the discrimination of white farmers as they have now been included on a 99-year land lease, says a report. Under ex-president Robert Mugabe’s government white farmers were allowed to lease the land for only 5-years. But according to New Zimbabwe.com, President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government has scrapped that policy, with the country's eight acting provincial resettlement officers being told that "there should be no more restrictive 5-year leases to white farmers". Read more on this story here Zimbabweans 'now expressing themselves freely' after Mugabe: EU Harare – A European Union delegation currently in Harare has reportedly said that Zimbabweans are "now expressing themselves freely" since the ouster of ex-president Robert Mugabe in November. According to New Zimbabwe.com, speaking during an EU funded justice sector support programme in the capital, one of the EU envoys, Phillipe Van Damme said that the western bloc had realised that since the nonagenarian's ouster the country was becoming "a democracy". He, however, said that although the new government had allowed people to speak freely, citizens would fully enjoy their freedoms if the judiciary worked in their interests. For more on this story click here After Mugabe, Zimbabwe opposition stumbles before vote Harare - With Zimbabwe holding elections this year, the opposition had been feeling cautiously optimistic - until its arch-enemy, Robert Mugabe, was ousted from power. The Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), Zimbabwe's main opposition party, now faces the threat of a revived Zanu-PF party at polls that look set to further cement one-party rule. Morgan Tsvangirai, veteran leader of the MDC, was among the most prominent critics of Mugabe and the ruling Zanu-PF, but he has been forced out of the action by colon cancer. Read more on this story here Kenya media shutdown sparks outrage and concern Nairobi - In an unprecedented act, Kenya's government this week indefinitely shut down three major TV news channels, instantly transforming a partisan political dispute into an angry nationwide debate on fundamental freedoms. Thousands of opposition supporters had crammed into a downtown park in Nairobi on Tuesday to watch a strange act of political pantomime. There, they saw their leader, Raila Odinga, swear himself in as "people's president" in defiance of last year's flawed election that saw Uhuru Kenyatta win a second term. Read more on this story here Gambia's president says recovery 'like carrying a mountain' Banjul - Gambia's new president says taking over a bankrupt nation was "like carrying a mountain" and that stabilising the economy will take time after the former leader left it in tatters. In an interview, President Adama Barrow said the government of this tiny West African nation is working to restore the confidence of international development partners. Barrow took power a year ago after a political showdown that saw longtime dictator Yahya Jammeh fly into exile following a surprise election loss. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  