Morgan Tsvangirai. (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - The mother of the late Zimbabwe opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai has threatened to commit suicide if the lawyer who says he's taken over
from her son attends the funeral, local press reports say. Watch the video below Power struggles within the Movement for Democratic Change
are intensifying following founder Tsvangirai's death on Wednesday in South
Africa after a two year struggle with colon cancer. He was 65. Nelson Chamisa, 40, said on Thursday that he was now the
acting MDC president - but Tsvangirai's mother appears not to agree. Both the
private Standard newspaper and the state-controlled Sunday Mail say Mrs
Tsvangirai on Saturday evening threatened to commit suicide if Chamisa played
any role in proceedings. Tsvangirai's body was flown in from South Africa on
Saturday afternoon. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Tsvangirai is to be buried in his rural home of Buhera in
eastern Zimbabwe on Tuesday. It's not clear how proceedings will play out given the messy
squabbles within the party, which was founded by the former trade unionist in
1999. Tsvangirai's family is rumoured to favour Elias Mudzuri, one of the MDC's
vice presidents, as a successor to her son. 'I will give you Chamisa' But Welshman Ncube, who broke away from the main MDC in 2005
to form his own party, maintains that Tsvangirai told him last month that he
wanted Chamisa to take over, the Standard reports. "He asked that we continue with the MDC alliance [a
grouping of opposition parties]," Ncube quoted Tsvangirai as saying.
"He then said, I will give you Chamisa to lead the whole process." On Sunday President Emmerson Mnangagwa went to Tsvangirai's
Harare home to pay his condolences. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  