Iavan Pijoos Press Council of SA. (Website) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - The Press Council of South Africa (PCSA) has announced that Latiefa Mobara has been appointed as its new executive director. Mobara will take over from respected journalist and previous press ombudsman Joe Thloloe. In a statement released on Tuesday, the PCSA said Mobara has extensive experience in media and had worked in the journalism field for more than 20 years. She previously worked as an executive director at the South African National Editors Forum (Sanef) and joined the Press Council in 2013 as public advocate. Joe Latakgomo, who boasts more than 50 years of experience in journalism, takes over as public advocate, while Dr Johan Retief has been retained as ombud. Mary Papayya, Andrew Allison, Faizel Dawjee, Themba Sepotokela, Dinesh Balliah, and Kalim Rajab have been appointed as the public representatives on the Press Council. Retired judge and former deputy judge president of KwaZulu-Natal Phillip Levinsohn was appointed Press Council chairperson. The press representatives on the Press Council are Raymond Louw, Amina Frense, Graeme Campbell, Izak Minnaar, Andrew Trench and Louise Vale. The non-media voice on the panel of adjudicators has been amplified by the appointments of Pria Chetty, Mpho Chaka, Patrick Roy Mnisi, Professor Karthy Govender, Paula Fray, Peter Mann, Brian Gibson and Carol Mohlala as the public representatives. Tshamano Makhadi, Joe Thloloe, Fanie Groenewald, Judy Sandison, Megan Rusi and Wandile Fana will serve as the press representatives on the adjudication panel. Levinsohn thanked Thloloe for the role he played as ombud and as executive director. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  