All eyes are on President Cyril Ramaphosa and his new look national executive as they set about charting a course for South Africa. Jump to
                    bottom New MPs to be sworn in on Tuesday Parliament is expected to swear in a number of new members on Tuesday with David Mabuza, the new deputy president of the country, being the biggest announcement. This came after a major Cabinet reshuffle by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday night with some familiar faces returning to some key ministries and the introduction of some new faces. Mabuza, who will be deputy president following the swearing in in Parliament, is joined by Dr Zweli Mkhize who will be the minister of cooperative governance and traditional affairs, Nhlanhla Nene, who will join as the minister of finance, and Regina Mahlaule who will join as deputy minister of international relations and cooperation. Alvin Botes and Peggy Nkonyeni will also be sworn in on Tuesday.  WATCH - LIVE STUDIO ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa's first Cabinet reshuffle ICYMI: Here they are: Ramaphosa's new brooms President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced several changes to his Cabinet. Here are short biographies of some of the new and not-so-new faces in the national executive. Nhlanhla Nene, Minister of Finance Former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene has made a dramatic return to his former position as head of National Treasury in President Cyril Ramaphosa's new Cabinet. Nene was first appointed finance minister at the beginning of President Jacob Zuma's second term in May 2014, replacing a largely successful five years served by predecessor Pravin Gordhan. Nene was infamously removed by Zuma in December 2015, just 19 months into the job, on the basis of a promise he would head up a new African regional centre of the Brics Development Bank. His axing at the time - to make way for then little-known MP Des van Rooyen - caused a massive tumble in the rand, and came to be known as "Nenegate".  Who's in and who's out: How Ramaphosa shook up SA's economic cluster Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday night announced a major shakeup of the ministers in SA's economic cluster. By Tuesday, SA should have new ministers of finance, public enterprises, mining and energy. Following his swearing-in as President earlier in the month, a Cabinet reshuffle by Ramaphosa had been widely predicted. But the new president played his cards close to his chest until he made the announcements at 22:00 on Monday night during a brief address at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. Fin24 looks at who's in and who's out in some of the important ministries that make up the government's economic cluster.  OPINION: Ramaphosa compromises on Cabinet but prioritises economy President Cyril Ramaphosa's Cabinet was an unavoidable compromise that he will now have to explain and put into perspective for the nation, analysts say. "To my mind there are two things he didn't get wrong and that is the appointment of Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister and Pravin Gordhan as public enterprises minister," says political analyst, Ralph Mathekga. "The rest is a disasterous compromise. He will really have to explain this to the nation." Ramaphosa on Monday night announced sweeping changes to Cabinet, including the appointment of controversial Mpumalanga premier David Mabuza as deputy president. Ministers who got the axe include Mosebenzi Zwane, Fikile Mbalula, David Mahlobo, Faith Muthambi, Lynne Browne and Des van Rooyen.  ICYMI: Bathabile Dlamini survives the axe Outgoing Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini has lived to serve another day as a Cabinet minister, but it won't be as head of the department overseeing the nation's social grants scheme. In a surprise move, the under-fire Dlamini was kept on to serve in President Cyril Ramaphosa's new Cabinet, which was announced on Monday, despite multiple failures to meet the SA Social Security Agency's (Sassa's) obligations to the Constitutional Court. Dlamini - who is also ANC Women's League president - was reshuffled to become the Minister for Women in the Presidency.  ICYMI: 'Scandal-ridden' Mabuza a 'danger' to SA, warns Maimane The DA has criticised President Cyril Ramaphosa's late night Cabinet reshuffle on Monday night, calling the appointment of David Mabuza as the country's deputy president "a danger to our country". The problem with the country was "the ANC itself", said leader of the opposition Mmusi Maimane. "The ministers who make up Ramaphosa’s compromised and partially captured cabinet show what we’ve known all along – it’s about the ANC and connected cadres first, and the interests of South Africa second," he said.  ICYMI: ANC congratulates Ramaphosa following cabinet reshuffle The ANC welcomed President Cyril Ramaphosa's first Cabinet reshuffle, which was announced late on Monday evening. The reshuffle was delayed by almost two hours, but eventually he announced the return of former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene to the same portfolio and the introduction of others, such as Dr Zweli Mkhize to the position of Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta). Ramaphosa also announced that David Mabuza would be appointed as his deputy. He is to be sworn in on Tuesday.  ICYMI: Nene: It will take a great deal of work to stabilise SA's finances It will take a great deal of work to stabilise the country’s finances, new Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene told Fin24 by phone on Monday evening. But he is “quite confident” it can be done. President Cyril Ramaphosa, as part of a major Cabinet reshuffle, announced that Nene will take over the top job at the finance ministry from Malusi Gigaba, who will return to his former post at home affairs. Nene told Fin24 the position of finance minister was a tall order, adding that "it’s going to take a lot of doing". "I was very comfortable where I was,” he said. He will be sworn in along with other ministers, including Pravin Gordhan, on Tuesday.  ICYMI: Who is our new deputy president-elect David Mabuza? David "DD" Mabuza is to bid farewell to his home province of Mpumalanga, where he served as both premier and ANC chairperson. He was plunged into national politics when he was elected as President Cyril Ramaphosa's second-in-command in the African National Congress. He started his tenure as the ANC's Mpumalanga chair in 2008 and was then elected as its premier in 2009.  ICYMI: Who is in and who is out: Ramaphosa's Cabinet reshuffle President Cyril Ramphosa announced significant changes to his Cabinet on Monday. He also appointed Mpumalanga Premier and ANC deputy president David "DD" Mabuza as deputy president of the country. Mabuza will be sworn in as an MP on Tuesday.  Jump to
                top