Mahlatse Mahlase & Tshidi Madia President Jacob Zuma. (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories EFF leader Julius Malema has threatened to shut down SONA, if National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete refuses to table a motion of no confidence against Zuma. Watch. WATCH Johannesburg – An "arrogant" President Jacob Zuma
told the ANC's top six during their meeting on Sunday night that the
"people still love him", sources inside the party's national working
committee (NWC) said. The officials gave the NWC feedback following their two
hours of deliberations with Zuma, during which they asked him to resign. However, Zuma refused to step down, telling the party's
leadership that he had done nothing wrong and that only the national executive
committee (NEC) had the powers to recall him. Zuma was so confident that he would still get party support
that he wanted to make a presentation to the party's NEC. But his request was rejected by the NWC, which then held an
urgent meeting on Monday at Luthuli House. "They told him we want to start an election campaign
and we cannot do it with his face and with him in office with all his baggage,
but he told them the people still love him," a source said. 'When your organisation says you must go it is humiliating' The top six also put pressure on Zuma with the prospect that
he could be forced out of office via a vote of no confidence already set for
February 22 and an impeachment process that could cost him his pension if
successful. However, NWC members said Zuma was undeterred even by the
state capture inquiry that will investigate his relationship with his friends,
the Guptas, who are accused of looting state coffers. "Zuma told them that he has survived eight or nine
votes of no confidence and he believes he will survive another one. Even his
supporters were shocked," another source said. "The officials said they tried to tell him that an
impeachment or motion of no confidence 'is bad for you', but he said to them
'when your organisation says you must go it is humiliating'," said
another. The NWC meeting lasted four hours, with some Zuma supporters
coming to his defence and arguing against a recall. "We started the debate all over again on why he should
step down, despite the fact that the last NWC had agreed," another said. Fired ministers didn't get chance 'to argue their case' The debate ended in the defeat of Zuma's supporters and the
NWC deciding to hold an emergency NEC meeting on Wednesday in Cape Town to
decide Zuma's fate. The meeting will be held on the eve of the State of the
Nation Address (SONA), with some ANC members threatening to walk out if Zuma
insists on addressing them. - Read more: ANC special NEC to decide Zuma's fate on Wednesday The last NEC meeting in Pretoria mandated the top six
officials to meet with Zuma to engage him on his exit. "He told the NEC that he wants to make a presentation
to the NEC, but it was rejected. One member said the NEC is not a trial and
when he fired the other ministers they didn't come to NEC to argue their case.
Like them he is a deployee of the party," the source said. Some members now fear that SONA could be postponed if the
NEC decides to recall Zuma. Speaker Baleka Mbete is due to meet with political parties
in Parliament on Tuesday following the DA's call for SONA to be postponed until
Parliament "elects a new president". The EFF wanted a vote of no confidence to be held before
SONA. However, their request was denied, with a date for the motion set for
later in the month. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  