The Hawks are holding a briefing to share information about the status of the ongoing investigations into Estina and the Vrede dairy farm project in the Free State in which the Guptas are implicated.  - For the latest updates, follow News24 reporter Alex Mitchley: @AlexMitchley  Jump to
                    bottom And with that, the briefing ends.  Matakata: "Within that 13 (identified suspects), eight appeared in court, one is Ajay Gupta, and we didn't pronounce on the others, because we couldn't establish their whereabouts." Matakata doesn't want to divulge too much information about the five suspects who have not yet been arrested, because the Hawks don't want to "compromise the investigation".  #Hawks Matakata says there is correspondence between the Hawks and Ajay Gupta, through his lawyer who promised that he would bring him in. Now there is a second set of lawyers corresponding with the Hawks @TeamNews24 Matakata responds on question of 'pronouncement': "We've never made pronouncement on anyone else (other than the 8 arrested), difficult for me to make any reference to him (Duduzane Zuma), as was made in the public space." Matakata: There is correspondence between ourselves and Ajay Gupta's lawyer.  Matakata first responds to an off-topic question about terrorist attacks in SA.  News24 journalist Alex Mitchley asks for clarification on what the 'no pronouncement' of warrant of arrest against Duduzane Zuma means - does it mean there is a warrant? Also, will Ajay Gupta be handing himself over?  #Hawks Matakata says there are 13 suspects, eight of which have been arrested. She won’t clarify who the other suspects are @TeamNews24 Matakata says there was no 'pronouncement' of warrant of arrest for Jacob Zuma's son, Duduzane Zuma.  #Hawks Matakata says there is no pronouncement of a warrant of arrest for Duduzane Zuma @TeamNews24 Matakata: But as I clarify now, on what is Mr Ajay Gupta sought on, as I indicated it's on an unrelated matter to the Estina (project), but it's on corruption as well. Matakata says the minister was misinformed.  Matakata finishes off the briefing barely 10 minutes after it started, and is now taking questions.  #Hawks Matakata says she wants to ensure the nation that the hawks are not influenced politically or otherwise and that they will continue investigating these cases without fear or favour @TeamNews24 Matakata: "The warrant of arrest on Ajay Gupta is on an unrelated case of corruption, and is still active until it is executed."  #Hawks Matakata says Hawks also announced the warrant of arrest for Ajay Gupta, but that it isn’t related to Estina and rather another charge of corruption @TeamNews24 Matakata provides some brief background info on the investigation up until now.  #Hawks Matakata says the Hawks investigation into Estina was completed in November last year also refers to the search and seizure in free state at the premier’s office @TeamNews24 Acting National #Hawks Head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation will hold a media briefing on the Estina Investigations. pic.twitter.com/er7R0RWf13 Matakata starts off by extending condolences to the police officers killed in the Ngcobo massacre.  #Hawks Acting Hawks head general Yolisa Matakata is here, she will be briefing media @TeamNews24 #HawksEstina at the GCIS in Pretoria where he hawks are expected to brief media on the Estina investigation and other recent investigations by the Hawks @TeamNews24 ICYMI: NPA opposes Atul Gupta's AFU challenge The National Prosecuting Authority's Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) has filed opposing papers in a court application Atul Gupta has lodged to have a preservation order against him set aside. In an answering affidavit, which was filed in the Free State High Court in Bloemfontein on Wednesday, prosecuting authorities set out precisely why they say that R10m in Gupta's personal bank account constituted the proceeds of corruption, fraud and money laundering. Gupta claims that they misled the court with the evidence they presented so that they could secure the preservation order. However, the AFU says the money was paid from the Estina dairy project, which received it from the Department of Agriculture in the Free State.  ICYMI: Vrede dairy farm case: Kamal Vasram gets R100 000 bail One of the eight people arrested by the Hawks during raids at a number of Gupta compounds, including their Saxonwold home and reportedly at one of their offices in Sandton last week, was granted bail in the Bloemfontein Regional Court on Monday. Estina director Kamal Vasram was granted bail of R100 000, National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesperson Phaladi Shuping said. Shuping said Vasram was previously denied bail because the "State had a view that he was not playing open cards". "He said his salary was R15 000, but the State managed to verify his rent and found that it is R14 700," Shuping said. He added that the magistrate had found that it was in the best interests of justice to grant Vasram bail.  ICYMI: Where are 'fugitive' Ajay Gupta and his brothers? As authorities search the length and breadth of South Africa for Ajay Gupta, speculation is rife on whether he has fled the country for good. News24 understands that the Hawks are still looking for Ajay, who is currently regarded as a fugitive, along with his two brothers Atul and Rajesh, albeit for different cases. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi told News24:"We have reason to believe he (Ajay) is still in the country." He said Ajay was wanted for charges that are not related to the Vrede dairy farm case. Management at OR Tambo International Airport, however, confirmed to News24 that there are records of Ajay leaving the country.  ICYMI: WATCH: Magashule on Vrede dairy farm: Law must run its course ICYMI: Seven Vrede dairy farm project accused released on bail As police hunt down Ajay Gupta, seven of the eight people arrested by the Hawks during raids at Gupta compounds this week were granted bail in the Bloemfontein Regional Court on Thursday. The Hawks have confirmed to News24 that Gupta is a fugitive from justice. "We spoke to his lawyers because he was supposed to hand himself over, but that didn't [get] him. We regard him as a fugitive, because there is a warrant of arrest," Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said. Mulaudzi said Gupta was facing a charge of corruption.  ICYMI: Gupta linked five to face the music at the Bloemfontein Regional Court Five people arrested during Hawks raids on various Gupta compounds are to appear in the Bloemfontein Regional Court on Thursday, Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi confirmed. The suspects were arrested in connection with investigations into the Free State Vrede dairy farm project, Mulaudzi said. One Gupta brother and a business associate are among those arrested and more arrests are imminent, News24 understands. City Press reported that that former Free State agriculture head Peter Thabethe was arrested in connection with his involvement in the failed dairy farm project.  Jump to
                top