Grace Mugabe's PhD supervisor investigated, faces arrest - report Harare – One of the lecturers who supervised Grace Mugabe's PhD thesis is reportedly being investigated by the Zimbabwe anti-graft agency. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, University of Zimbabwe (UZ), lecturer Professor, Claude Mararike faced arrest once investigations were concluded. Zimbabwe Anti-corruption commission (ZACC) spokesperson, Phyllis Chikundura confirmed the development. "He (Mararike) is under investigation and he faces arrest once investigations have been completed,” Chikundura was quoted as saying. For more on this story click here Mugabe is 'well and resting' but 'won't speak to the media', says ally Harare - Zimbabweans marked Robert Mugabe's 94th birthday on Wednesday with an official day off, but without the extravagant cakes and fawning tributes that defined February 21 for much of his 37-year rule. As president, Mugabe typically celebrated with a rambling speech while wearing a suit decorated with images of his own face at a party that included a lavish feast. But following his ousting in November after a brief military takeover, this year's festivities were restrained. Read more on this story here Mugabe tells AU envoy he resigned 'for the sake of peace, development' Harare – Zimbabwe's ex-president Robert Mugabe has reportedly told the visiting African Union commission chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat that he stepped down from his post for the sake of "peace and development" following a military intervention in November. Speaking to journalists in Harare after a three day visit to the southern African country on Monday, Mahamat said his mission was to get first-hand information regarding the country’s political transition last year, reported NewsDay. Read more on this story here 'Some' missing Nigerian schoolgirls rescued after Boko Haram attack Damaturu - The families of dozens of girls missing for several days after a Boko Haram attack on their school in northeast Nigeria on Thursday faced an anxious wait for their return after confirmation some had been rescued. Police said on Wednesday that 111 girls from the state-run boarding school in Dapchi, Yobe state, were unaccounted for following an attack by the jihadists on Monday night. The disappearance sparked fears of a repeat of the 2014 mass kidnapping of more than 200 girls from a similar school in Chibok, in neighbouring Borno state. Read more on this story here Diarrhoea kills 26 Congolese in Ugandan refugee camp Kampala - Twenty-six Congolese refugees at a fast-growing camp in western Uganda died from acute diarrhoea in just three days, the UN said on Thursday. Tens of thousands of people have fled an upsurge of fighting in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo this year, many of them arriving weak and unwell at Ugandan camps that are struggling to accommodate them. "The number of deaths caused by acute diarrhoea is 26 over the period from 15 to 18 February," said Duniya Aslam Khan, spokesperson in Uganda for the UN refugee agency (UNHCR). Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  