Ramaphosa says Tsvangirai will be remembered for his 'profound role in Zim politics' Cape Town – President Cyril Ramaphosa has sent his condolences to Zimbabwe, following the passing away of veteran opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai. "On behalf of the government and people of South Africa, President Ramaphosa has conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the family of Mr Tsvangirai, the government and people of Zimbabwe on this sad loss. "He assured the Tsvangirai family and the people of Zimbabwe of the solidarity and compassion of the people of South Africa," the department of international relations and co-operation said in a statement. Read more on this story here Villagers sue Zim government over Grace Mugabe – report Harare – The Zimbabwean government has reportedly been sued by villagers who were evicted from Manzou farm in Mazowe in 2017 to pave way for the then first lady Grace Mugabe. The villagers were evicted in spite of a court order granting them reprieve to stay on the farm until government secured alternative land for them. According to NewsDay, through their human rights lawyer, Noble Chinhau, the 30 villagers led by Leonard Mukoore, were demanding compensation for loss of property and dignity they suffered during the forced eviction. For more on this story click here UK to deport at least 2 500 'illegal' Zimbabweans – report Harare – Britain has reportedly announced its intention to deport at least 2 500 Zimbabweans living illegally in that country. According to New Zimbabwe.com, British ambassador to Zimbabwe, Catriona Lang, recently told Zimbabwean Deputy President Kembo Mohadi that her government intended to deport illegal Zimbabweans in that country. The announcement came as Theresa May said that her government was "determined to reduce the number of immigrants coming into the country by thousands". Read more on this story here Tsvangirai's body awaits repatriation home for burial... as his MDC party faces nasty power struggles Harare - As the body of Zimbabwe's main opposition leader awaits repatriation home for burial, his party already faces nasty power struggles to replace a man praised by both allies and rivals for his tenacious fight for democracy. That fractured opposition gives President Emmerson Mnangagwa a virtually clear road to winning the first post-Robert Mugabe election in the months ahead. After the death of Morgan Tsvangirai on Wednesday in neighbouring South Africa after a battle with cancer, three deputies in his Movement for Democratic Change party are vying to succeed him. Tsvangirai had been the MDC-T's only leader since its formation in 1999. Read more on this story here Gunmen shoot dead 18 in northwestern Nigeria over cattle Lagos - Police say gunmen have shot dead at least 18 people in Nigeria's northwestern Zamfara state. State police spokesperson Muhammad Shehu says an armed gang ambushed a group of residents in Birani village. He says the bandits were mobilized by cattle rustlers who had been prevented from stealing cows. Some local media reports put the death toll as high as 40. Read more on this story here At least 38 police hurt in Tunisia football violence Tunis - Thirty-eight police officers were injured when they were pelted by smoke bombs, stones, chairs and pieces of metal at Thursday's Tunisian league match between bitter rivals Esperance of Tunis and Etoile Sportive Sahel. The match at Rades on the outskirts of Tunis was won by Esperance 3-2, but was twice interrupted by the violence. Objects were thrown at the police "by supporters of EST (Esperance)", said an interior ministry spokesman. Nineteen police needed treatment in hospital. For more on this story click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  