While Jacob Zuma's resignation after his ANC recall means Parliament will no longer have to debate a motion of no confidence, there is still the matter of making official the appointment of Cyril Ramaphosa as the president of the republic. Jump to
                    bottom Derek Hanekom waiting in Parliament ahead of the election of the new president.  Maimane for the DA says Parliament must still be dissolved because South Africa needs a "fresh start".  Maimane: "The fundamental issue here is South Africa needs a new beginning."  DA leader Mmusi Maimane about to hold a briefing.  The DA's Mmusi Maimane about to hold a quick media briefing @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/fY1AAQAe9E Zikalala says Zuma is still an ANC member and believes he will still campaign for ANC. @TeamNews24 Zuma has kept focus on rural development says Zikalala @TeamNews24 Zuma made fearless and radical decisions for the interests of the poor. @TeamNews24 Zikalala says they will continue to seek Zuma's guidance, but nonetheless congratulates Cyril Ramaphosa and says ANC KZN will defend him.  Zikalala congratulates Ramaphosa and says ANC KZN will defend him. @TeamNews24 Zikalala says ANC KZN will host welcome back event for Zuma and will continue to seek his guidance. @TeamNews24 Zikalala says those who preserve minority privilege were quick to launch attacks on Zumas integrity @TeamNews24 Zikalala says Zuma signed more SIU investigations than any other president @TeamNews24 Sihle Zikalala speaks on provincial reaction to Jacob Zuma's resignation.  PTT coordinator Sihle Zikalala speaks on provincial reaction to Zuma resignation. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/8rQfNUQNU3 "Tell us what Zuma has done," a small group of ANC members from Msholozi branch in Nkandla sing. #ZumaResigns @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/2yetAzXjqo A group of ANC members wearing T-shirts with Zuma's face are singing outside his Nkandla home. #ZumaResigns @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/b9lRI0WGHi Sibongiseni Bhengu, ANC's Msholozi branch member in Nkandla, says they are not happy about Zuma's resignation #ZumaResigns @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/VaDIDrzb1f Outside Jacob Zuma's Nkandla homestead.  Media houses camping outside former president Jacob Zuma's Nkandla homestead since his resignation last night. #ZumaResigns @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/H8HIKx8fbU WATCH: COPE says Zuma should have been impeached  Economic Freedom Fighters' Statement On The Resignation Of Jacob Zumahttps://t.co/31mXeP4HeT #EFF Malema says those who turned against them for Zuma have now turned against him in favour for Ramaphosa, warns that they will turn against him too - speaking here of former youth league leaders, 'careerists' @teamnews24 Zuma is going to jail, Malema promises.  #EFF Malema: Zuma is going to jail, he deserves to suffer. Says JZ destroyed a generational mission. "We going to fetch him fetch him from the village @teamnews24 Malema pays tribute to the late Sindiso Magaqa, places the blame for his death on Zuma and Gigaba.  #EFF Malema says the ANC destroyed Sindiso Magaqa's future & hijacked his funeral for factional problems @teamnews24 Malema: We cannot afford to have another day with Gigaba in office. Our purse is in trouble as we speak. #EFFPresser Malema calls Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba the "architect of state capture".  #EFF Malema says Malusi Gigaba cannot present the Budget speech. Also says Sfiso Dabengwa's relationship with Ramaphosa is problematic @teamnews24 Malema takes a swipe at Baleka Mbete, calling her "the most corrupt speaker of Parliament".  Malema: Baleka has no respect for the constitution or the rules of Parliament. #EFFPresser Malema: Cyril Ramaphosa doesn't qualify to be the president of South Africa.  Malema: Rampahosa doesn’t qualify to be the President of South Africa. If he thinks he does, let him go for an election. #EFFPresser Malema: We are not petty. That is why we acknowledged Lindiwe Mazibuko and her contributions to this struggle in the removal of Zuma. #EFFPresser #EFF Malema going after a journalist who asked about life after Zuma. Says it's like those who said opposition would be irrelevant after Ramaphosa was elected 'yesterday Ramaphosa relied on the irrelevant opposition to get rid of Zuma' @teamnews24 Malema: Why would I go back to the ANC? They subjected me to concocted charges in Polokwane with the hope that I would go and sell cigarettes in the street. I will never go back to the ANC. It will never happen! Malema: I will never go back to the ANC... I will rather become an analyst on PowerFM, for free, because I love politics.  #EFF Malema says his granny asked that he must never go back to the ANC, says current leaders in the party humiliated him & his family @teamnews24 Malema: "Cyril's father Rupert said that we are mosquitoes that need Doom... Cyril became that Doom. We are a threat to white monopoly capital - since back in the days of the [ANC] Youth League."  #EFF Malema says the crime they committed was winning over branches on issues of nationalization @teamnews24 #EFF Malema: Gwede didn't want us, said to Andile Lungisa you chase me, I chase you all the way to the sea @teamnews24 Malema: This is amongst other things, demonstrated by the fact that we stopped the presidency of Jacob Zuma who fell on his sword before we could push him to it. The war for economic freedom continues and all Ground Forces must remain vigilant! SALUTE! #EFFPresser #EFF Malema: I was expelled by Jacob Zuma with the help from Derek Hannekom & Cyril Ramaphosa. Includes Gwede Manatshe as part of shenanigans to oust them from the ANC @teamnews24 #EFF Malema: 5th parliament is guilty as Zuma is guilty. Court found we did not discharge our responsibility when it comes to Nkandla. Says no one deserves to be president. We must go back and get a fresh mandate @teamnews24 #EFF Malema responding to questions now: we are joining the DA motion of the dissolution, will support them. Discussion starts today, shouldn't be election of a president @teamnews24 Malema: The people of South Africa are beginning to acknowledge the reality that the EFF is not just an opposition political party, but a mass movement with ideological and political capacity and political tactical superiority to lead society. Malema: The EFF will however participate in the State of the Nation Address and will robustly engage all the issues that will be raised there. The EFF will not lower the bar concerning holding the executive accountable. Malema confirms that the EFF will not participate in the election of the new president in Parliament.  Malema: The EFF will therefore not participate in the election of a new President to replace Zuma because we do not want to legitimate anyone from the ruling party. As a result, at the first opportunity to lead a motion in parliament, Malema: If Ramaphosa becomes President, he is simply going to replace Zuma's corruption stooges with his own corruption stooges. The recent appointment of SIFISO Dabengwa into ESKOM board is a worrying sign that Ramaphosa will replace Zuma thieves with his own thieves. Malema: . Because this parliament has been complicit in creating the personality cult that is Jacob Zuma and it must be dissolved to reconstitute a new leadership of South Africa with a fresh mandate from the general participation of our people through elections. Malema calls for early elections.  Malema: If the ANC of Ramaphosa is honest and truly seeks a new and stable future, it must agree to the call for early elections. Jump to
                top