'It's foolish to think Mugabe will come back and rule Zimbabwe again' Harare – Zimbabwean former freedom fighters have reportedly rebuked ex-president Robert Mugabe for criticising the new administration, saying that the nonagenarian "was dreaming" if he believed that he could rule the southern African country again. Mugabe, who was ousted in November last year, reportedly attacked President Emmerson Mnangagwa and his allies over the weekend, saying that they were "wrong" in removing him from power. During a private birthday party at his Harare mansion, the 94-year-old ex-president demanded an apology from Mnangagwa for last year’s military operation that saw his 37-year rule coming to an end. Read more on this story here 'It's Zanu-PF, not army that removed Mugabe from office,' says senior party official Harare – A senior Zanu-PF official has reportedly claimed that ex-president Robert Mugabe was forced to step down by the ruling Zanu-PF party's central committee - not by the army. According to the state-owned Chroniclenewspaper, addressing scores of Zanu-PF supporters at the Nemamwa in Masvingo, Senator Clemence Makwarimba said that Zanu-PF remained responsible for pushing the nonagenarian out of power. Makwarimba said that the former president had allowed his powers to be usurped by his controversial wife and the generation 40 cabal. For more on this story click here 'Fake PhD': Call for Grace Mugabe's arrest as opposition says she 'is the real culprit' Harare – Zimbabwe's opposition, the Movement for Democratic Change party led by Welshman Ncube, has reportedly said that former first lady Grace Mugabe must be arrested and prosecuted over her controversially attained PhD. According to New Zimbabwe.com, MDC spokesperson, Kurauone Chihwayi, said that Grace was "accused number one" in her PhD saga. Grace, whose husband resigned in November under pressure from the military, received the doctorate from the University of Zimbabwe (UZ) in 2014 amid allegations she did not study for it. Read more on this story here UN peacekeepers from Ghana recalled over sex with S Sudan women New York - Forty-six UN peacekeepers from Ghana have been recalled from their base in northwestern South Sudan following allegations of sexual exploitation of women sheltering at the site, a UN spokesperson said on Monday. The 46 police were confined to barracks in Juba on Saturday after a preliminary investigation showed that the Ghanaians were "engaging in sexual activity with women" living at a UN site to protect civilians in Wau, UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said. For more on this story click here Uganda ruling party wants to extend president's rule to 2035 Kampala - Uganda's ruling party is pushing for a referendum that could extend the longtime president's rule to 2035 despite the objections of opposition leaders who call it a move toward a life presidency. A national referendum to extend the president's term from five years to seven most certainly will happen in 2018, said Rogers Mulindwa, a spokesperson for the National Resistance Movement party. "It has to be held this year," he said. Read more on this story click here      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  