President Cyril Ramaphosa smiles for a selfie at the presidential golf day. (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - A law firm asks for access to Patricia de Lille and other officials' computers; Mugabe tells AU envoy he resigned 'for the sake of peace, development' and News24 goes inside Metrorail’s cable theft and commuter crisis. Here are today’s top stories: Law firm asks for access to Patricia de Lille and other officials' computers A law firm has asked for access to computers from the office of Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille and two other officials, in the latest development to rattle the City.De Lille said in a statement that she welcomed the investigation activities. Listeriosis has claimed 172 lives so far - NICD The latest statistics show that the listerioses outbreak has now claimed a total of 172 lives and 915 laboratory-confirmed cases have been reported to the National Institute of Communicable Diseases since 1 January 2017, the NICD have said. Ramaphosa charms at Presidential Golf Day President Cyril Ramaphosa charmed guests at his first Presidential Golf Day on Thursday, posing for selfies and drawing laughter from members of the media as he feigned deafness in response to a question about a Cabinet reshuffle. Lupita Nyong’o to play Trevor Noah's mom in film adaption of his memoir Trevor Noah’s award-winning autobiography Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood will be getting the big screen treatment. Deadline reported on Wednesday that Academy Award winning actress Lupita Nyong’o will play his mother Patricia in the upcoming film adaption. EXCLUSIVE: Attempt to kill Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen's brother in Pollsmoor Prison - attorney There has been an attempt on the life of Colin Booysen - the brother of alleged Sexy Boys gang boss Jerome "Donkie" Booysen - in prison, his attorney has said.  IN DEPTH: Inside Metrorail’s cable theft and commuter crisis Brazen thieves, who have effectively brought a critical rail route in Cape Town to a standstill for about six weeks, leaving thousands of commuters in the lurch, have become the focus of intense and unprecedented operations to squeeze out criminals who target beleaguered Metrorail's infrastructure. More pupils hospitalised after Eastern Cape food poisoning outbreak More pupils at Ndamase Senior Secondary School in Ngqeleni in the Eastern Cape have been hospitalised after a severe food poisoning outbreak at the school's hostel. Running with the Buffalo: Can the opposition keep up? One of Jacob Zuma's biggest thefts was robbing Parliament of meaningful debates on the issues affecting everyday South Africans like you and me, writes Jan Gerber. Mugabe tells AU envoy he resigned 'for the sake of peace, development' Zimbabwe's ex-president Robert Mugabe has reportedly told the visiting African Union commission chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat that he stepped down from his post for the sake of "peace and development" following a military intervention in November. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  