Qhama Dayile PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It's been almost four years since the murder of Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa – no arrests have been made and the case has not been resolved. A week ago, an anonymous Twitter account holder with the handle @AdvBarryRoux concluded what might have transpired on the night of the murder in Kelly Khumalo’s home. @AdvBarryRoux accused music mogul Chicco Twala's son, Longwe Twala – who was present on the day of the murder – of pulling the trigger. In an interview with on Metro FM with presenters Mo Flava and Masechaba Ndlovu on The Drive, Longwe came forth to clear his name saying he is saddened that his own people could accuse him of such a crime and that the incident was a robbery gone wrong. "It was a robbery gone wrong; I was even a coward on the day. I wasn't the first to try and protect everyone. I ran out the door after a gun was pointed at me." Longwe says that when Senzo was shot by the robbers, he was outside. "I wanted to get help but it was late; the neighbours and everyone were sleeping. Senzo was protecting everyone – he fought the guys as I was outside and that is when the guys released the gunshots. The intention was not to kill Senzo, but he was overpowering them because he is a strong goalkeeper and he was beating them. Before the robbers entered the house, Longwe said he had come to visit his then-girlfriend, Kelly's sister Zandie. "I didn't even come to chill; I just came to pick her up but she told me her mom had cooked Sunday lunch and she asked me to stay for lunch." The former singer says he and everyone who was at the house at the time of the murder is being investigated by the police. "We are being investigated hardcore by the police, we went in for questioning and they took our phones." Longwe says he is scared for his life: "I'm not scared of being arrested for killing Senzo because I am innocent, but I am scared that I could get the wrong crowd of people who could attack me." As for taking his father's gun, Longwe says he would never steal the weapon because he keeps it with him all the time. "My father is a powerful man; he has a lot to protect, he carries his gun 24/7 and he will never leave his gun anywhere. Why would I take my father's gun?" he asked. Listen to the full interview here:  PODCAST: Longwe Twala son of legendary singer Chicco Twala chats to @mofladj & @masechabandlovu about #SenzoMeyiwa on the #TheDriveOnMetro https://t.co/9Koigf4Qeu 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  