Zim white farmers who lost their farms 'may soon be compensated' Harare – The Zimbabwean government has reportedly set up a committee that will spearhead the process of compensating white farmers whose farms where seized during the country's controversial land reform programme. According to Daily News, President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s administration appointed the permanent secretary of the land and agriculture ministry, Ringson Chitsiko, to chair the committee until October next year. The report said that the appointment of Chitsiko was seen as "signalling the commencement of efforts to make agricultural production attractive again" in the southern African country. Read more on this story here Zim First lady's resignation from parliament 'raises eyebrows' - report Harare – Zimbabwean First Lady Auxilia Mnangagwa's resignation from parliament has reportedly received mixed reactions from the country's opposition parties. Auxilia gave up her seat as Chirumanzu-Zibabwe legislator on Saturday, with her husband, President Emmerson Mnangagwa telling Zanu-PF supporters at a rally in Mvuma that there was need for her  to focus more on her role as the country's first lady. Mnangagwa said that Auxilia wanted to concentrate on her role as "the mother of the nation" and not just a particular constituency. For more on this story click here US urges pressure if needed to ensure DRC vote on Dec 23 New York - US Ambassador Nikki Haley urged the Security Council on Monday to use pressure if necessary to ensure that long-delayed presidential elections in the Democratic Republic of Congo take place December 23. She denounced the use of force by DRC government against opposition demonstrators and demanded that Congolese authorities release political prisoners and guarantee freedom of expression and assembly. "These changes are desperately needed right now in DRC," Haley said at an informal council meeting. "Use of excessive force against civilians who simply want a say in their future is against everything the UN is supposed to stand for." Read more on this story here Oxfam faces fresh claim of abuse in South Sudan London - Scandal-hit British charity Oxfam was reeling on Tuesday after fresh claims of sexual assault and rape, this time between aid workers in South Sudan. Helen Evans, former global head of safeguarding, also warned of assaults on children volunteering in Oxfam's hundreds of high-street charity shops in Britain. She accused senior managers of failing to act, heaping pressure on chief executive Mark Goldring just hours after his deputy resigned over a scandal involving aid workers' use of prostitutes in Haiti. Read more on this story here Thousands flee DRC fighting to Uganda: UN Kampala - Over 22 000 refugees have fled fighting in Democratic Republic of Congo to neighbouring Uganda, violence that has left several dead and villages torched, the UN said on Tuesday. At least four refugees drowned while crossing the waters of Lake Albert between the two nations, the UN refugee agency, UNHCR, said. "Last week, over 22 000 Congolese crossed Lake Albert to Uganda in three days, bringing the total number of people from the DRC arriving in the country to about 34 000 since the beginning of the year," UNHCR said on Tuesday. "The refugees use small canoes or overcrowded and rickety fishing boats, often carrying more than 250 people and taking up to 10 hours to cross." Read more on this story here     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  