Robert Mugabe (File: AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - President Robert Mugabe has met with Joice Mujuru, the
deputy president he sacked four years ago, and apologised for chasing her out
of the ruling party, reports said on Friday. The soon-to-be 94-year-old met Mujuru at his Harare mansion
this week and asked for her forgiveness, Mujuru’s spokesperson told a private
newspaper. "They met and it was at Mugabe's invitation. One of the
reasons was to say sorry for everything that happened," Gift Nyandoro told the
private NewsDay. Campaign of vilification Mujuru, Zimbabwe’s first female vice president, was sacked
in December 2014 from the Zanu-PF and government after a campaign of vilification
by former first lady Grace Mugabe, who accused her of trying to topple her
husband from power. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa. FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. Mugabe told Mujuru he had been "misinformed" about Mujuru,
although he blamed his successor Emmerson Mnangagwa and the new vice president
Constantino Chiwenga. "I was misinformed and I decided to call you so that I can
say I'm sorry, my daughter, we were misled," Nyandoro quoted the former
president as telling Mujuru. "I have come to know that all the people who were
fighting you are Mnangagwa and Chiwenga. It was a grand plan to get to me and
not yourself." Shunned by allies Nyandoro said that Mujuru had forgiven Mugabe for sacking
her. Another private paper, the Zimbabwe Independent, says Mugabe
told Mujuru he felt "betrayed and abandoned" by his former allies in the ruling
Zanu-PF, who have shunned his company since the military takeover on November
15 that led to his resignation days later. "Mugabe said he is shocked by the behaviour of senior party
people that he has worked with, some as far back as the liberation struggle," the source told the Zimbabwe Independent. "He said he felt betrayed and abandoned that they did not
come to visit him." Mnangagwa has promised that his government will allow Mugabe
and his family to live "in peace, undisturbed" in the wake of his dramatic
ouster. Mugabe has been given a generous retirement package that includes
houses, cars, staff and four overseas trips per year. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  