Nielen De Klerk@Nielendk Nessie Peeva Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bergvliet residents are reeling after the “execution-style” murder of a local cake artist and her husband in their rented ­home­. The bodies of Nezabravka “Nessie” Peeva (47) and her husband, Angelo Dimov (50), were found in the house last Monday evening at around 21:00. Both had gunshot wounds to their heads. The police were responding to a complaint which came from the house in Heerengracht Road when they found the bodies, provincial police spokesperson Sergeant Nolyiso Rwexana says. “Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation,” she added. Dimov was fighting credit card fraud charges with another suspect in the Bellville commercial crimes court and was being represented by lawyer William Booth. The couple, who are both from Bulgaria, have a six-year-old daughter in Grade 1. Peeva often posted pictures of herself and the girl on Facebook, but photos of Dimov were hard to find. This was his second marriage. The Bulgarian embassy in Pretoria told Timeslive the girl was being taken care of. It is understood neighbours didn’t hear gunshots, despite Peeva working from home on her novelty cake decorating business called the “Cake Witch”. A dog was also shot on their property. One of the last cakes she showcased on her business’ Facebook page is one of “The Assassin” a character from a video game. An apparent friend of the couple, Lynne Glass, honours Peeva in a moving video on Youtube. “It will be hard to forget someone who gave us so much to remember,” the video says before showing photos of Peeva giving what appears to be cake decorating demonstrations and many of Peeva’s cakes. Anyone with information on the case is urged to call the investigating officer, Detective Paul Alexander, on 021 702 8900. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  