Gabisile Ngcobo PHOTO: Brian Spurr Photography, Gallo Images/Afp/Getty Images/Mujahid Safodien/Waldo Swiegers, Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories President Cyril Ramaphosa is cleaning house – which means a
familiar face is going to be back in the finance minister hot seat. It’s been like a game of musical chairs in the past few
years, with former president Jacob Zuma hiring and firing finance ministers
faster than you can say “pay back the money”. But under SA’s new leadership, it looks as though Nene is
back to stay. “I haven’t been sworn in yet, [the position] is a tall
order, it’s going to take a lot of doing,” Nene told Fin24
last night. “I was very comfortable where I was.” It’s the ultimate plot twist for Nene, who YOU spoke to in the
wake of his sacking by Zuma in 2015. At the time, the 59-year-old businessman said he “wouldn’t
change a thing”. Here’s a look back on
that interview. Fields and hills roll by as we make our way to Kranskop in
rural KwaZulu-Natal to meet the town’s most famous citizen. Everyone knows his
name, everyone knows his house – and also that it has a big swimming pool. We got lost, so Nhlanhla Nene meets us at the local petrol
station, rolling up in his black Mercedes-Benz, casually dressed in a black
Hugo Boss shirt and khaki chinos. It’s a far cry from the dark suits and ties he used to wear
before he was sacked as finance minister, a move that left the economy
bleeding. His wife, Lisa, is in the car too – they’ve just driven back from Durban
where she’s undergoing treatment for back problems. We follow his car to the
family homestead, where a neat house is set back across a well-kept lawn and
son Siyabonga (33) is washing a car on the paved driveway.  At the front door Nhlanhla bends to move a pair of boots out
of the way. “This house is such a farm,” he apologises.  Then he leads us into their home, through the living room
with its leather couches, family pictures and a photograph of Nelson Mandela,
and onto the patio. There’s the pool the locals speak of, the water covered by a
net to keep his two-year-old granddaughter, Abelo, safe. Lisa has dashed off to
a church meeting, so he’s babysitting the little girl. Abelo runs up to her granddad to show him a burn on her hand
and Nhlanhla blows it gently and settles her on his lap, where she promptly
falls asleep. Relaxed and clearly at peace, this man hardly looks like
someone who was unceremoniously sacked at the start of a series of bizarre
events that South Africa – and the economy – is still reeling from. He first took a liking to the world of finance when he
opened a tuck shop in his parents’ home – although not even he could have
dreamt he’d go on to hold the country’s purse strings some day. In fact, he didn’t really want the job of finance minister
and was “taken aback” when he was given the job in 2014, he tells us. His appointment came in the middle of a platinum mine strike
and public servants’ negotiations, but he had a good team. “You work within a
collective, sit and brainstorm. But the final authority rests with you as the
minister, and I think that’s the most challenging part.” He was puzzled when he was released by President Jacob Zuma
from his duties, he says. “But you journalists, when I say I was a bit
surprised, you say ‘he was shocked’,” he says with a chuckle. Yet he admits he didn’t expect it. Zuma told him he’d be
nominated for the position of head of the Africa Regional Centre of the Brics
Development Bank – a nomination many now believe the president lied about.
Nhlanhla is sanguine about it all. “I always say a nomination is a nomination. Beyond that you
leave it with the bank. I just left it at that.” He’s decidedly matter-of-fact about his sacking too. “The president decides on appointments, so it doesn’t help
to question ‘why me’. So I accepted it as such and that was that.” After his firing on 9 December last year he called his wife
to tell her there was going to be an announcement but she shouldn’t be too
concerned. Everything was going to be okay. Then he arranged for his
ministerial houses in Pretoria and Cape Town to be packed up and moved home to
Kranskop the next day. “The first thing my daughter said to me was, ‘Dad, is it
true we now have 100 percent of you? And you’ll drive us around, no
protectors?’ And I said, ‘Yes’.” That’s when the father of three realised how much his family
missed him and was relieved they took the news so well. “It was a call for celebration,” Nhlanhla says. But while
his family were happy he was home, the rest of the country wasn’t. The rand
dipped from R14,60 to R15,40 against the dollar overnight after Nhlanhla was
replaced with the short-lived David van Rooyen, and billions of rands were
wiped off the JSE. “I was a bit overwhelmed by the turn of events,” Nhlanhla
admits. “But I kept saying it’s not about the individual but the
institution.” He found being at the centre of such a fierce storm overwhelming,
he says. His name was “flashing and popping” all over the place, and
he eventually just tried to shut it all out. Nhlanhla was happy Pravin Gordhan was reinstated as finance
minister, but doesn’t feel it’s his place to comment on David. He tried to put himself in David’s shoes, he says. “I imagined what it
would have felt if, after I’d been appointed, people had said, ‘I wonder how
he’s going to fit into Pravin’s boots?’ ”  It didn’t take him long to adjust to fulltime family life,
he says. “I’ve been having a wonderful time with my family.” Siyabonga, an IT graduate, owns a small internet café in
Greytown. Daughter Nkosingiphile (27), Abelo’s mother, helps her brother in his
business and also runs a small catering company with her mom. Baby of the family Sibusisiwe (20) is studying social
sciences at the University of Cape Town. Nhlanhla and Lisa had a stillborn baby after Siyabonga was
born. “It was devastating but it brought us closer together I believe,” he
says. The couple, who celebrated their 31st wedding anniversary
this month, have lots in common, including farming, a love of the church and
“making a little money on the side”. When he was a government minister he and Lisa were apart a
lot but still shared “every moment” with each other. He’d be sitting in a meeting and his wife would send him a
picture of a cow giving birth, he recalls. “My daughter would say, ‘Look at your wife – she’s supposed
to be resting but this is what she’s doing!’ ”  Nhlanhla is now a board member of investment company Allan Gray
and a resident adviser at the Thebe Investment Corporation. He received many offers after the finance minister fallout
but these companies “struck a chord because of their community involvement”, he
says. “They also allow me flexibility and I’m not stuck in an
office.” He says he’s still finding his feet at the two corporations and will
contribute by helping with the decision-making process and providing financial
advice. Nhlanhla is grateful the positions will allow him time to
devote to his three main loves: community, church and family. “They have made
me who I am and they’re everything to me.” “I reached the point where I didn’t like watching the news
because it was like I’d caused this event, though I knew I hadn’t.” He goes to the Lutheran church down the road where he’s a
lay preacher, just as his late dad, Thembinkosi, was. He also chairs the parish council and sits on the circuit
committee. His mother, Frida, was a nurse for 38 years at a local hospital and
his dad was a teacher. “I can say my family was lucky. We were not a poor family –
not rich, but almost well off in the area.” He and his brothers did all the chores in the home and
cooking was his favourite. When he stayed in Cape Town with his son during
Siyabonga’s student years they’d take turns in the kitchen. “When it was my turn to cook he’d do the dishes and vice
versa,” says Nhlanhla , who also often does his own laundry. “Sometimes if my wife’s busy I’ll iron my clothes and she’ll
complain and say, ‘I was going to do that for you.’ And I’m like, ‘Don’t spoil
me because you’re not always around to do it’.”  There’s a punching bag, an exercise bike and a set of
weights on the patio of Nhlanhla’s home – which bear testament to how he lost
15 kg in 10 months. He exercises every morning and jogs to the family farm a few
kilometres from their home in Kranskop.  His heart lies in farming now, he says, his eyes lighting up
at the subject. He and his wife keep chickens, ducks, pigs, and a small herd of
cattle, and they grow cabbages, spinach and mealies which they supply to local
shops. “The other day I’d forgotten that my wife is the boss and I
said, ‘You’re making it a habit of coming to work late.’ And she looked at me
with the expression that says, ‘You know who the boss is’.” Neither of them is very experienced at farming, he admits,
and they’re learning as they go along. “I’m approaching retirement age and would like to retire to
do some serious farming. It’s therapeutic, especially the relationship with
animals. It’s a Godgiven thing.” He treats the chickens like his children. “You don’t expose them to excessive heat or cold, just like
babies. They’ll die if you do.” The country may be going through economic and political
turmoil, but he believes there’s reason to be optimistic – we just have to be
patient. In the meantime it’s time we all become proactive. “When the economy is struggling you must ask yourself what
role you can play. “Citizens must adopt the culture of sustaining themselves.
There are times when everything on the table here at home came from the farm –
juice, greens, meat and eggs . . . everything except the salt.” South Africans also need to adopt a culture of saving, and
sharing resources. “You don’t need lots of money to be compassionate.” As we’re leaving, we run into a group of Nhlanhla ’s
neighbours with a sheep they brought to say thank you to the Nenes for lending
them a car while their vehicle was in for repairs. “I have a simple philosophy in life: be content with what
God has given you at any given time. And when you’re given a job you must give
it your all, but don’t claim any entitlement.” He hasn’t spoken to the
president since he was fired, he adds. “Even when I was a minister I only got calls from him when
there was need.” And if the phone did ring and it was the president offering
him another ministerial role? He can’t say what he’d do, he replies. “In life they say never say never. If you’re still a member
of an organisation [the ANC] and it’s about serving the people more than your
organisation, if you say no, who’s going to do it?” But for now he’s living a tranquil life and he has no
regrets. “I wouldn’t change a thing,” he says. “But of course there’s always
room for improvement.” Photos: Brian Spurr
Photography, Gallo Images/Afp/Getty Images/Mujahid Safodien/Waldo Swiegers,
Supplied      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  