Atul Gupta Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  I believe that
with my record in journalism over three decades I’m entitled to express my
views on media freedom and the need for a diversity of voices in the media. Count me out if
you want to fight for the reinstatement of ANN7’s contract to be carried on the
national satellite network. In my book, this television
channel doesn’t qualify as legitimate media. Rather, it is a commercial tool of
corrupt interests. Its main aims are disinformation and propaganda – and it’s
becoming clearer by the day that it is at least partially funded with stolen
taxpayer money. With others, I had
fought for free speech and a diverse media when it wasn’t fashionable. It was
dangerous, actually. I accumulated a criminal record as long as my arm trying
to, with my colleagues, unearth uncomfortable truths, let suppressed voices be
heard and voice opinions the apartheid state saw as a threat to its security. Two decades into
our democratic dispensation free speech is ensconced as a fundamental right in
law and in the hearts of the citizens. The last few years
the media has shown in dramatic fashion that it is a central part of our
freedom and democracy. And then something
happened that South Africans were not used to. The president of the country
gave many of the powers the voters had given him to an immigrant family in
exchange for gifts and favours. The Gupta family then
created a shadow state where they could even appoint Cabinet members, senior
civil servants and members of the boards of state-owned enterprises. Aided by President
Jacob Zuma and the state security services, they embarked on a project to get
rid of virtually everyone in the state who could investigate or prosecute
corruption and state capture. When citizens started
grumbling about this, the Gupta/Zuma cabal launched a massive propaganda
onslaught to camouflage state capture and to discredit and harass its critics. ANN7 was a central
pillar of this project. Bell Pottinger, a
British PR company, was hired at great expense to refine this strategy. In a
manner unforgiveable in any democracy, they started to disrupt, manipulate and
undermine the national discourse and the way South Africans relate to each
other. Simplistic, cheap
populist concepts like radical economic empowerment and white monopoly capital
were brought back into the discourse to cover up the grand theft of state money
that would otherwise have gone to development and to alleviate the plight of
the poor. Again ANN7 was
instrumental in executing this strategy. The Guptas and
their media mouthpieces never had any ideology. ANN7 was never an effort to let
suppressed voices be heard or opinions outside the mainstream be heard. From Day 1 ANN7
was purely and simply tools to glorify the Guptas and the Zuma faction of the
ANC, to cover up these elements’ criminal tracks, camouflage state capture and
harass those who stood up to corruption. As Bell Pottinger –
hired and paid by the Guptas – trained Zuma faction structures like the Youth
and Women’s Leagues and the MK Veterans’ Association and wrote their speeches
and statements for them, so ANN7 made sure that these elements got maximum
publicity. The massive Gupta
onslaught on social media involving fake news websites and hundreds of
thousands of bots was part of the same project. There are serious
questions about the ethics of Multichoice that gave ANN7 a national platform
and paid them many millions, but these do not belong in the same debate as the
merits or demerits of ANN7. I hope the
technical and administrative staff of ANN7 will find other jobs, but I don’t
have the same sympathy for journalists and presenters who took part in the
disinformation so enthusiastically. Perhaps they can find employment in the
advertising or PR industries. The
"sale" of ANN7 to Mzwanele Manyi was nothing but a smokescreen.
Nothing had changed. It is still a tool of state capturers and Zuma loyalists
and would have closed down anyway once the Guptas fled the country for good. I don’t want to
see ANN7 banned, but I’m glad it will soon lose its privileged position on a national
platform. ANN7 does not
deserve journalists' activism. The South African
media landscape will be better off without ANN7. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   