Morne Morkel. (AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Gauteng Premier David Makhura 'dips his head in shame' following the Life Esidimeni tragedy, SARS aims to reach its R1.217trn tax revenue by next month and Prasa says it is under siege following the shooting of a contractor. Here are a few of our top stories for today: SACP 'waiting to be consulted' on Cabinet reshuffle SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande has told journalists that the party is yet to be consulted on any pending changes to the national executive. Shaun Abrahams sets deadline to communicate Zuma decision - NPA The National Director of Public Prosecutions will confirm his decision relating to the corruption charges against Jacob Zuma to his lawyers and the affected parties, the NPA has announced. Ramaphosa's Cabinet: Who will stay and who will go? As Cyril Ramaphosa's presidency takes shape, the next stop is the much anticipated Cabinet reshuffle which will give an indication as to how the new president is gaining grounds within his party. Taxman collects R1trn, so far SARS has collected R1 trillion in tax revenue so far, but it is still below the R1.217trn target set by Treasury at the Budget Speech. WATCH: 'Our land is being controlled by white foreigners' - Gugulethu backyarder Gugulethu 'backyarders' have distanced themselves from protest violence that erupted near the famous Mzoli's tavern on Sunday, but say they have been waiting for land for long enough, and call on City authorities to start delivering on their promise of housing.  Morne Morkel drops retirement bombshell Proteas fast bowler Morne Morkel has announced he will retire from all forms of international cricket at the conclusion of the four-match Test series against Australia starting in Durban on Thursday. Fitzpatrick: Springboks unlikely RWC 2019 contenders Former All Black captain Sean Fitzpatrick believes the Springboks are unlikely to threaten the All Blacks at the 2019 World Cup in Japan. 'Prasa is under siege' - acting CEO on latest Cape Town rail attack Prasa says it is under siege by thieves targeting underground and overhead rail cables as well as train tracks, following the shooting of a contractor. I dip my head in shame – Makhura on Life Esidimeni tragedy Gauteng Premier David Makhura has apologised for the Life Esidimeni tragedy that happened under his watch and left 144 psychiatric patients dead. 2 bodies found as missing plane is located The South African Civil Aviation Authority is investigating the cause of a crash after the burnt wreckage of an aircraft reported missing was found in the mountains a day later, the Aeronautical Rescue Co-ordination Centre has confirmed. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  