Zim university vice chancellor defends Grace Mugabe's controversial PhD – report Harare – The University of Zimbabwe's vice chancellor, Levi Nyagura, has dismissed claims that Grace Mugabe was not the author of her controversial doctorate thesis, adding that the university stood by its decision in awarding the ex-first lady her PhD, says a report. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Nyagura maintained that the thesis had been at the university library since 2014 and those making the accusations were "ignorant messrs and doctors" without the capacity to supervise a PhD student. Read more on this story here Ethiopia releases blogger, opposition figure Addis Ababa - Ethiopia's attorney general ordered the release of hundreds of prisoners on Thursday, state media reported, including journalist and blogger Eskinder Nega and opposition leader Andualem Arage whose jailings drew international condemnation. The pair are the latest high-profile detainees to be freed since Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn announced last month that Ethiopia would allow an unspecified number of detained "politicians" to leave jail. For more on this story click here Kenya's Citizen TV back on air after suspension Nairobi - Kenya's leading private TV station Citizen TV was back on air Thursday a week after authorities suspended it and two other broadcasters for showing the mock inauguration of opposition leader Raila Odinga as president. Citizen TV resumed broadcasting three days after two of its private rivals, NTV and KTN News, who had likewise ignored a government injunction against showing the January 30 Odinga ceremony. The channel returned a day after Kenya's Chief Justice criticised the government for defying a number of court orders which he said placed the rule of law under threat. For more on this story click here Zimbabwe's top opposition party hurt by power struggles Harare - Power struggles are ravaging Zimbabwe's main opposition party months before the election as party leader Morgan Tsvangirai seeks cancer treatment in neighbouring South Africa. Three deputies are vying to act as MDC-T party leader in Tsvangirai's absence. Spokesperson Luke Tamborinyoka told reporters that Tsvangirai remains unwell but will return to the country "soon". The spokesperson described those interested in succeeding him as "political vultures." The 65-year-old Tsvangirai has dominated opposition politics for close to two decades as the leading voice against former president Robert Mugabe, who resigned under pressure in November. Read more on this story here Mugabe allies petition AU, SADC over Mnangagwa's legitimacy – report Harare – Zimbabwean ex-president Robert Mugabe's allies, who have since launched a new party, the New Patriotic Front (NPF), have reportedly "formally petitioned" the African Union (AU) and Southern African Development Community (SADC) to challenge President Emmerson Mnangagwa's legitimacy. According to NewsDay, in a 79 page document, the NPF, through its the lawyer Marius van Niekerk, argued that Mnangagwa came into office through military intervention, and as a result, should not be recognised as the southern African nation’s president. The petition was received by Angola President Joào Lourenco who leads SADC's organ on politics, defence and security, the chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussaka Faki Mahamat, chairperson of SADC President Jacob Zuma, SADC executive secretary Stergomena Lawrence Tax, and the outgoing AU chairperson Alpha Conde of Guinea, said the report. For more on this story click here Zim crunch polls: Political violence 'will be dealt with without fear or favour', Zanu-PF warns Masvingo – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party has reportedly warned its members against engaging in political violence, as the southern African country prepares for its forthcoming crunch presidential polls. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Masvingo provincial chairperson, Ezra Chadzamira, said that the party would take tough actions against anyone found contravening President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s directive of having free and fair elections. Zimbabwe was set to hold its elections before the end of July after President Emmerson Mnangagwa recently pointed to an earlier date than expected following the ousting of long-time ruler Robert Mugabe. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  