While some are reporting that ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa was on a plane to Cape Town, his motorcade was apparently seen arriving at Zuma’s house on Wednesday afternoon. Jump to
                    bottom Full statement: ANC caucus to implement decision of the ANC NEC to
recall its deployee Following the meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the African National Congress (ANC) held on Monday 12 February 2018, the Treasury General of the ANC, comrade Paul Mashatile addressed a special meeting of the ANC Parliamentary Caucus today to communicate the ANC NEC decision to Caucus. The NEC decided “to recall its deployee, comrade Jacob Zuma, in accordance with Rule 12.2.21.2 of the ANC Constitution, which accords the NEC the authority to "recall any public representative”. ”In the event that President Zuma does not resign by the end of today, Caucus resolved to vote in favour of an amended motion for his removal in terms of Section 102(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa in order to effect the NEC decision. A meeting of the National Assembly Programming Committee (NACP) earlier this afternoon resolved that a motion of no confidence be scheduled for tomorrow, 15 February 2018, at 14:00 in the National Assembly. The NAPC also agreed that pending the availability of the Chief Justice or his nominee, that the new President of the Republic of South Africa be elected on Friday morning, 16 February 2018. The ANC will be proposing that its President, comrade Cyril Ramaphosa be elected President. The ANC supports the proposal that the newly elected President deliver the State of the Nation Address (SONA) in a Joint Sitting on Friday evening, 16 February 2018 at 19:00.  'Victimised' Zuma goes to war with ANC over recall President Jacob Zuma has warned of a crisis if the ANC goes ahead with its decision to recall him. In the unprecedented interview with the SABC, Zuma said he would respond to the decision to recall him later. "It's just two months from conference. I think we are being plunged into a crisis. My leaders will regret this. Some of my comrades may not like this," Zuma said. #ZumaResponds... and South Africa reacts President Jacob Zuma has given his side of the story in an exclusive interview to the SABC on Wednesday. Zuma said the ANC has not provided him with reasons why he should resign as the president of the country. "I need to be furnished on what I have done. Unfortunately, no one has been able to provide what is it that I have done. I said to them, if I have done something wrong, there are processes in the ANC," he said. It is still unclear whether President Zuma will resign. He says he will issue a statement later today.The ANC has released a statement saying that they "will await delivery of this response by President Zuma". Malema rubbishes Zuma's claim of not wanting to oust Mbeki EFF leader Julius Malema claimed President Jacob Zuma was talking rubbish when he said he was one of those within the National Executive Committee who fought against former president Thabo Mbeki being recalled. In a live television interview with SABC journalist Mzwandile Mbeje on Wednesday, Zuma said that he tried to fight for Mbeki, arguing that his recall would create a "bad precedent". National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete confirmed on Wednesday that the motion's date has been moved up to Thursday at 14:00. The parties of the fifth Parliament have now agreed on the rest of its programme, pending the availability of Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to oversee a prospective election of a new president: - Thursday, 14:00 - Motion of no confidence, - Friday morning - Swearing in of a new president, - Friday evening - State of the Nation Address (SONA), - Monday - SONA debate by parties, - Tuesday - SONA reply by the new president, - Wednesday - Budget speech  The National Assembly programming committee has agreed to a preliminary schedule over the next seven days that will include a motion of no confidence, a swearing in of a new president, and the SONA. The chief whips met on Wednesday afternoon to discuss Parliament's programme following the ANC's decision to support and amend an EFF-sponsored motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. I need to be told what I have done wrong - Zuma President Jacob Zuma on Wednesday said the ANC has not provided him 
with reasons why he should resign as the president of the country. "I
 need to be furnished on what I have done. Unfortunately, no one has 
been able to provide what is it that I have done. I said to them if I 
have done something wrong, there are processes in the ANC," said Zuma in
 an exclusive interview with the SABC at the Union Buildings in 
Pretoria.  “We believe in a peaceful way to resolve issues,” Mabe says. As it stands we have got a decision and we are doing
everything in our power to put it place in the most peaceful manner as possible,
Mabe says at the briefing. Mabe says the fact that Zuma said “not defying the party” it
shows that he understands the discipline of the movement. Allow the processes take place. We understand that he was speaking in the context of the
oath that he took. SA might be rid of Zuma by Thursday evening The African National Congress will on Thursday support a motion to get rid of a defiant Jacob Zuma as state president. After weeks of "discussions" with President Jacob Zuma, ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile announced on Wednesday after an ANC caucus meeting in Parliament that the party's MPs would support the Economic Freedom Fighters' motion of no confidence against Zuma. Shortly after Mashatile and ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu briefed the media, Speaker of the National Assembly Baleka Mbete announced that the EFF's motion of no confidence against Zuma - originally scheduled for February 22 - had been rescheduled to Thursday. Voting will take place by open ballot. The rand stayed within its expected daily range on Wednesday, after President Jacob Zuma pleaded innocence and ignorance on why the ANC wants him to step down, saying he felt victimised. "I think it is unfair," he said of the ANC's decision for him to step down. Zuma said this was the first time he believed a collective ANC decision to be incorrect. "I have not defied [the ANC], I have disagreed," he added.  OFFICIAL STATEMENT ANC TO AWAIT STATEMENT TO BE RELEASED BY PRESIDENT ZUMA The African National Congress (ANC) has noted the context to the decision of the NEC to recall Comrade Jacob Zuma, as a deployee of the ANC, provided by President Zuma in an exclusive interview with the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) earlier today. President Zuma has affirmed that he has not defied the ANC, however does not agree with the decision. In addition, President Zuma committed to deliver a statement in response to this decision later today. The African National Congress will await delivery of this response by President Zuma. Issued by the African National Congress  WATCH: Zuma briefing following calls for resignation, ANC recall (Courtesy of SABC) Zuma concludes his "interview" with the SABC, leaving more questions than answers. Says he will issue a statement later today.  Zuma says he will make a "statement" later today.  #ZumaExit Zuma says he will make a statement on his recall later, says he needs to be convinced on the recall, 'what are the reasons?' @teamnews24 The question of Zuma's resignation still up in the air.  Zuma: I am going to make a statement today about this matter. It is important to do that. This interview was helpful. (now it sounds that Zuma WILL resign later today). @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaExit Zuma's SABC "interview" takes a menacing tone. He says Ramaphosa will "regret" removing him as "some people" won't like it. But won't elaborate why and who. Watch it live here: https://t.co/YS2yP5vEPx Zuma says leadership of ANC may cause a bigger problem than they may think (by removing him). I hope they will know how to handle the organisation. @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaExit #ZumaExit Zuma says the problems of the ANC started when Mbeki fired him as his deputy in 2005 @teamnews24 #SONA18 will be on Friday evening. Reaction debate on Monday and Vote of no confidence is tomorrow. Zuma: deploying cadres is what I know best. I said there are 2 positions which you must deal with differently - deputy president and president. They were elected by conference. @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaExit Zuma says if Parliament votes him out, he will go. Parliament elected him (suggesting he won't resign voluntarily). @TeamNews24 #ZumaSpeaks “You can’t force a decision as it has been done now to another cadre to another leader” - Zuma @TeamNews24 #ZumaExit even in the way it's done is strange, his recall. Zuma says the ANC is rushing & brings up the vote of no confidence which will be discussed in parliament tomorrow @teamnews24 Zuma brings up the motion of no confidence scheduled for tomorrow in Parliament.  Zuma says he is open to other discussions. I hear tomorrow in Parliament there is motion of no confidence. Nobody has even come to me to tell me that. It's the manner in which it's been implemented that I have a problem with. @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaExit Zuma: Out there in the narrative, people are saying Zuma is defying. I'm not defying. I'm disagreeing with a decision of the ANC. But this has been done in a manner where I felt victimised. I never defied. I disagreed with decision. @TeamNews24 #ZumaSpeaks Zuma: this is first time in ANC I said I don't agree with a decision. I said if you want to recall, recall. In my view, you have no reasons to convince me. @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaExit Zuma: "I think it is unfair..."  Zuma: Nobody has explained to me what have I done. There's nothing I've done wrong. What is the problem? I don't understand. Told officials they were unfair and he doesn't agree with them. @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaExit Zuma says nobody told him why his package of leaving after 6 months was rejected. You can't just accept one part of a package. I saw the attitude and the manner it was discussed, it was important for people to know what has happened. @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaSpeaks Is Zuma questioning decision of highest decision making body? @TeamNews24 Julius Malema disputes some of Zuma's assertions.  He never opposed it, he actively supported it and mobilized all of us to support the removal of Mbeki. CR opposed it and @GwedeMantashe1 argued that instead of removing Mbeki, let’s call early elections. #ZumaExit Zuma: when the NEC came up with the decision it was not surprising, couldn't get why this was an issue. Says the NEC has the right & wisdom to deal with matters @teamnews24 Zuma: They said, can't we work out something. I said no. One of officials suggested 3 months, even that was rejected. It was clear with me that there was a problem here. So when ANC came up with a decision (to recall), it wasn't surprising. @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaExit Zuma suggests there was a disagreement with the ANC's Top 6.  Zuma: Ramaphosa and Magashule came back on Sunday, said the top 6 don't agree with the proposal. They said they're under pressure they've never seen before. They only accept I need to resign. I told them I had problem with that. I presented package. @TeamNews24 #Zexit #ZumaExit WATCH: Naidoo explain what will happen if Zuma refuses to resign  Jump to
                top