Distruction Boyz. (Instagram) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has tabled his Budget Speech and is shedding light on South Africa's economic road map in 2018. Watch the live stream above. WATCH Cape Town - The UK government has warned of a terror threat in South Africa following kidnapping arrests in KwaZulu-Natal; There was no lavish birthday celebration for former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe as he turns 94 today; and brave Capetonians bust alleged robbers at shopping centre. Here are today’s top stories: Rand cheers Gigaba's 'tough but hopeful budget' The rand firmed almost 1% after Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba delivered what he called "a tough but hopeful budget". Budget in a nutshell: New hope amid VAT and other tax hikes Building on the sense of a new beginning created by President Cyril Ramaphosa's State of the Nation Address on Friday, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba's Budget Speech in the National Assembly on Wednesday afternoon was all about rebuilding and restoration in challenging times. UK govt warns of terror threat in SA following kidnapping arrests in KZN The British government has warned its citizens that there is a terror threat from extremists linked to the Islamic State (ISIS) group in South Africa. This after a couple were apparently kidnapped in KwaZulu-Natal earlier this month in a case allegedly linked to terrorism. Eastern Cape cop murders: Team of top detectives appointed Police commissioner General Khehla Sitole has established a task team of experienced, top investigators to probe the murder of five police officers and a soldier in Ngcobo, near Mthatha in the Eastern Cape. No lavish birthday celebrations for Mugabe as he turns 94 today – report Zimbabwe's ex-president Robert Mugabe is reportedly not going to have his regular extravagant birthday celebrations this year despite the 21st of February being declared a public holiday. Omunye goes viral in America American comedian and TV host Ellen DeGeneres joined in on Black Panther mania by sharing a clip of movie-goers dancing to Distruction Boyz' hit Omunye. Brave Capetonians bust alleged robbers at shopping centre A group of Capetonians saved the day when they banded together to stop a robbery at a Kenridge shopping centre in Bellville on Wednesday. The woman who brought down sex-pest Reddy speaks out Desiree Vardhan, the woman who accused sacked South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (SASCOC) CEO Tubby Reddy of sexual harassment, has described the organisation’s workplace as a toxic environment which Reddy ran with an iron fist. I wanna be there when the Zuptas are arrested, send me A sense of reality is finally returning to South Africa after our much-needed collective therapy in the form of President Cyril Ramaphosa's "Thuma Mina" State of the Nation Address on Friday night. Malusi Gigaba featured this line from Kendrick Lamar in his budget speech The controversial Gigabyte as he’s affectionately known delivered his maiden budget speech today and thanks to his Kendrick Lamar quote, Twitter has something to laugh about. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  