Army generals who ousted Mugabe feared 'bloody' counter-op: Report Harare - Leaked minutes from negotiations during last year's military takeover that led to the ousting of Robert Mugabe suggest the commanders who staged it feared a “bloody” counter-operation. The privately-owned Standard says the minutes are taken from meetings between the army commanders – who were under now vice president Constantino Chiwenga - and the team that negotiated Mugabe’s resignation last November. The paper reports that the commanders believed Grace Mugabe’s G40 faction of the ruling Zanu-PF party had “captured the intelligence and police commanders”. The takeover paved the way for former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa to take over: he’s now been in power for just over two months. For more on this story click here Mugabe's nephew says new party 'not an avenue to bring back' his toppled uncle Harare – Former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe's nephew, Patrick Zhuwao, has reportedly said that the latest political outfit, New Patriotic Front (NPF), "is not an avenue to bring back" his ousted uncle. Reports over the weekend indicated that members of the Zanu-PF faction, Generation 40 (G40) that was loyal to former first lady Grace Mugabe were about to launch a new party in Zimbabwe. In documents circulated on social media the party, the NPF, accused the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the African Union (AU) of "dereliction of duty" for failing to condemn the military takeover that removed Mugabe from power last year. Read more on this story here Joice Mujuru 'not in any deal with Grace Mugabe': party Harare - Joice Mujuru’s party in Zimbabwe has rejected as “unfounded and baseless” reports that she will join with former first lady Grace Mugabe and her allies to challenge President Emmerson Mnangagwa in polls this year. Mujuru, leader of the National People’s Party (NPP) met Robert Mugabe last week, fuelling speculation he was tacitly giving his backing to the former vice president. A state newspaper, the Sunday Mail claimed Mugabe had “given his blessing to the creation of an opposition political party that will bring together G40 and the NPP”. Read more on this story here WATCH: MSF speaks on DRC's worst cholera outbreak Cape Town – A medical humanitarian group has said that it is unable to "reach everyone who is affected" by a cholera outbreak that has left at least 33 people dead in the Democratic Republic of Congo's capital Kinshasa. The central African country was experiencing its worst outbreak since 1994, with at least 55 000 cases and 1 190 deaths being reported in 24 out of 26 provinces last year. In an interview with News24, the Doctors Without Borders (MSF) field co-ordinator, Pierre van Heddegem, said that his organisation was doing everything it could, to save lives and was taking pride in how it had responded to the outbreak despite facing some serious challenges. For more on this story click here At least 23 killed in ethnic violence in DRC's Ituri: local official Kinshasa - At least 23 members of the Hema ethnic group have been killed since Friday in renewed violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo's Ituri province, a leader of the group said in a statement Monday. For more on this story click here Oil tanker with at least 22 Indian crew missing off Benin's coast New Delhi - India has sought the help of the Nigerian and Benin navies to find an oil tanker that has gone missing with 22 Indian crew members off Benin's coast. External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj confirmed late on Sunday that the tanker, Marine Express, went missing in the Gulf of Guinea. It's not known whether the ship was hijacked for ransom or to steal the nearly 13 500 tons of gasoline on board. Read more on this story here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  