Expelled ex-Zanu-PF heavyweights say they're 'ready to
rejoin party' – report Harare - Former Zanu-PF heavyweights, Didymus Mutasa and
Rugare Gumbo, who were sacked from the ruling party some few years ago, have
reportedly expressed their willingness to rejoin the  party. Mutasa and Gumbo were expelled
from Zanu-PF together with ex-vice president Joice Mujuruand other top
party officials on various charges, including plotting to topple the then
president Robert Mugabe in 2014. According to Daily
News, Mutasa and Gumbo said they were ready to rejoin the party but
were waiting to be "invited back". Read more on this story here Zim VP Chiwenga's mother in law 'likely to contest in
upcoming polls' – report Harare – Zimbabwean Vice President Constantino Chiwenga's
mother in-law is reportedly believed to be preparing to contest for a
parliamentary seat in the forthcoming elections. According to New
Zimbabwe.com, Helga Mubaiwa was over the weekend introduced to hundreds
of villagers by leaders in Manyame rural district in Seke as the next member of
parliament. This was after she reportedly helped  the area complete the
construction of a local clinic and school. Mubaiwa was the wife of Ken Mubaiwa, the Dynamos football
club president, and their daughter Marry Mubaiwa was married to Chiwenga. For more on this story click here Kenya deports opposition politician who attended oath
event Nairobi - Lawyers and human rights officials say a Kenyan
politician who had been arrested for witnessing the "inauguration" of
opposition leader Raila Odinga has been deported. Interior Ministry spokesperson Mwenda Njoka said on
Wednesday that Miguna Miguna renounced his Kenyan citizenship years back,
becoming a Canadian citizen, and had never reclaimed Kenyan citizenship. Read more on this story here Violence as South Sudan protesters denounce US arms
embargo Juba - Anti-Trump demonstrations in South Sudan's capital
turned violent on Tuesday as people took to the streets to protest the US
president's new ban on the supply of weapons to the army and rebels. On Friday, the United States imposed a unilateral arms
embargo on South Sudan, which is embroiled in a 5-year civil war. The State
Department said it is "appalled" by the continuing violence
perpetrated by both sides in the conflict. Hundreds gathered outside the US Embassy and the nearby
United Nations base on Tuesday morning to show their anger. Read more on this story here Zimbabwe's ailing
opposition chief appoints acting leader Harare - Ailing Zimbabwean opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai on Wednesday appointed one of his three deputies to take charge of
the party while he undergoes cancer treatment in neighbouring South Africa. Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader Tsvangirai's
spokesperson Luke Tamborinyoka said in a statement the former union chief had
appointed Nelson Chamisa, 40, as acting president "until the president's
return." "This is in light of the president's absence and that
of the two other vice presidents who are both in South Africa,"
Tamborinyoka said. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  