Iavan Pijoos Inxeba poster (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Jozi Cats, Africa's first competitive gay and inclusive rugby club, are embarking on a crowdfunding initiative for their #BTheWhistle on Homophobia in Sport #GayRugbyTour through South Africa. Watch. WATCH Johannesburg - A Nu Metro cinema in Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape has suspended the screening of the much-anticipated movie Inxeba (The Wound) until further notice, the cinema said on Friday. In addition, Hemingways Mall in East London and Canal Walk in Cape Town have also decided against screening the movie. In a letter, Nu Metro Cinemas in Walmer Park said: "This letter serves as a notice that the movie Inxeba (The Wound) has been suspended and will not be shown at Nu Metro Walmer Park." Cinema manager Mark Whitnall said a group of people protested against the movie and called for a boycott at the mall on Friday morning. "We obviously had to consider the safety and security of the mall and our customers. Our intention was not to cause violence. It is sad, but it was in the interest of our safety," Whitnall said. It is unclear when NuMetro intends to screen the movie again. Inxeba (The Wound) claimed eight South African Film and Television Awards (Safta) nominations, including for Best Actor, Best Directing and Best Film. It has also won 19 awards at 44 festivals in more than 25 countries worldwide, including South Africa. The film has been shortlisted for this year's Oscars in the category of Best Foreign Language Film. Director John Trengove said no other film has racked up as many Safta nominations. Producers of the film have since laid complaints with the South African Human Rights Commission and the Commission for Gender Equality.  "Human rights, freedom of expression, and freedom from gender oppression and inequality are protected by our Constitution," Trengove said. "Inxeba is not for everyone, but there are many young South Africans, particularly from the black queer community, who have every right to watch and engage with it because it reflects something of their own experience." Producer Elias Ribeiro said it was unacceptable that South Africans who wanted to see the movie, were prevented from doing so. "What is even more unacceptable is the fact that people’s lives are being threatened. We urge the parties leading these protests to take responsibility for their representatives and put an end to this behaviour," Ribeiro said. Despite the criticism, co-writer Malusi Bengu said they had received huge support and love from other South Africans. "The criticism was expected and is understandable but we must draw the line on ignorance. Inxeba does not reveal any mountain secrets. The death of young boys making headlines broke the sacred seal of our initiation. The negative responses have only served to highlight how difficult it is going to be to re-engineer the black man into a more rounded being," Bengu said. Here's what people had say on Twitter: I hope that those who protest the screening of #Inxeba display the same energy and vigor in protesting the death of initiates who die on this oversold path to “manhood”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  