Phemelo Medupe. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - More Gupta-linked companies are turning to business rescue, Robert Mugabe celebrates his first birthday since his ousting in near solitude and Farhaan Behardien lauds Heinrich Klaasen. Here is a selection of our top stories for the day: Ramaphosa drops NPA bombshell in Constitutional CourtPresident Cyril Ramaphosa has withdrawn the president’s appeal against a judgment of the North Gauteng High Court that NPA boss Shaun Abrahams should vacate his position.Zuma charges: NPA boss Shaun Abrahams gets feedback from prosecutorsNational Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams has received recommendations from prosecutors on whether or not former president Jacob Zuma should be prosecuted.REVEALED: More Gupta-owned companies apply for business rescueMore Gupta-linked companies have filed for business rescue, company documents show.Cyril Ramaphosa wears an Apple Watch – still R500 000 cheaper than Zuma's watchPresident Cyril Ramaphosa is leading a health-conscious revolution in South Africa with his morning walks, wearing an Apple Watch Series 3 wherever he goes. Call Me by Your Name is finally in SA cinemas this weekendThis
 coming-of-age drama, directed by Luca Guadagnino, is a graceful love 
letter to experiencing your first true yearning to give yourself 
completely to someone else. Timothée Chalamet in Call Me By Your Name. (SP) No warrant of arrest for Duduzane Zuma over Estina dairy farm - HawksWhile the Hawks have not clarified whether Duduzane Zuma is a suspect in the Estina dairy farm investigation, acting Hawks head Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata has confirmed that there is no warrant of arrest out for former president Jacob Zuma's son.Women have the balls to take over the reins at TreasuryWhen President Cyril Ramaphosa eventually gets around to his Cabinet reshuffle, he should seriously consider appointing a woman as finance minister, writes Fin24 journalist Lameez Omarjee.WATCH: Robbers blow up G4S van on N4 in PretoriaTshwane police have launched a manhunt for a group of armed men who ambushed a G4S cash delivery van on the N4, near The Orchards in Pretoria.  Engineering student becomes stripper to pay for studies: ‘I make R2500 for 30 minutes’With a lick of his lips, a thrust of his hips and a snap of his fireman’s suspenders he starts to peel off his clothes one tantalising piece at a time, leaving women – and a few men – in the audience screaming for more.Behardien praises 'hard man' KlaasenFarhaan Behardien says that his Proteas and Titans team-mate Heinrich Klaasen is a naturally competitive person.PICS: Zimbabwe's Mugabe marks 94th birthday in near solitudeZimbabwe's former leader Robert Mugabe is celebrating his first birthday since his resignation in near solitude, far from the lavish affair of years gone by. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  