MDC leader Tsvangirai to be laid to rest in his rural home village Harare – Zimbabwe's opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai is set to be laid to rest on Tuesday in his rural home village of Buhera. Tsvangirai died last week on Wednesday in a Johannesburg hospital where he was receiving medical treatment for colon cancer. He was 65. Reports on Tuesday indicated that Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga, who arrived in the country on Monday was set to attend Tsvangirai’s burial. Read more on this story here How Zim ex-first lady Grace Mugabe got her 'fake' PhD - report reveals Harare – The head of the University of Zimbabwe, Levi Nyagura, reportedly took lecturers from the institution of higher learning to former first lady Grace Mugabe's Mazowe orphanage in order for her to take oral examinations for her disputed Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree. This was revealed after Nyagura was arrested on Friday over the controversial awarding of the PhD to Grace. Investigators at the Zimbabwe anti-Corruption Commission said they had arrested Nyagura over the suspected fraudulent awarding of a doctorate to the former first lady. Form more on this story click here Malema describes as 'nonsensical' the manner in which Tsvangirai was denied power by Mugabe in 2008 Cape Town – EFF leader Julius Malema has reportedly paid tribute to Zimbabwe's long time opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, who died of colon cancer last Wednesday. According to NewsDay, Malema described as "nonsensical" the manner in which Tsvangirai was denied power by former president Robert Mugabeafter winning elections in 2008. He said this would never be allowed to happen in South Africa. Tsvangirai was denied to take over as leader of the southern African country by Mugabe and the ruling Zanu-PF party after winning elections in 2008. He was forced to get into a government of national unity after which he lost elections in 2013 to Mugabe. Read more on this story here Picture of Mugabe, wife Grace and AU's Faki goes viral on social media Harare – A picture of former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe together with his wife Grace and the African Union Commission Chairperson Moussa Faki has gone viral on social media. Faki was in Zimbabwe on Monday where he first met with President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who according to the state-owned Herald newspaper "apprised him of measures being taken by government to ensure free and fair elections". Mnangagwa also briefed Faki on the peaceful political transition that took place in the southern African country last year, the report said. For more on this story click here Mozambique president presses peace deal with opposition Maputo - Mozambique's President Filipe Nyusi has met the leader of opposition Renamo as part of efforts to broker peace between the group and his ruling Frelimo party. Renamo rebels fought a 16-year war against Frelimo until 1992, and unrest again boiled over between 2013 and 2016. Nyusi travelled to the remote Gorongosa mountains on Monday for talks with Renamo's leader Afonso Dhlakama who has been in hiding since October 2015. Read more on this story here 2 aid workers killed in eastern DRC: UN Kinshasa - Two Congolese aid workers were killed and a third abducted by an unidentified armed group in the troubled North Kivu province of Democratic Republic of Congo, the United Nations said on Monday. "We lost two fellow aid workers killed in the line of duty by unidentified armed people," the UN's Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said in a statement. The three men were employed by the Congolese NGO Hydraulique Sans Frontieres (HYFRO), which specialises in water purification projects, when attacked on Saturday near the village of Mushikiri. For more on this story click here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  