Alex Mitchley President Jacob Zuma with Cyril Ramaphosa. (File, Themba Makofane, Daily Sun) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria -  A number of civic organizations under the
banner of Future South Africa have written a letter to ANC President Cyril
Ramaphosa urging the ANC to recall President Jacob Zuma before the State of the
Nation Address (SONA) on Thursday. The convenor of Future
South Africa Mandla Nkomfe starts the letter by stating that Ramaphosa and the
collective leadership of the ANC should do what is in the interest of the over
55 million people residing in South Africa. “In just four days’
time, SONA is due to be delivered. South Africans across the
country will be glued to their television screens, their radio sets and
cellphones to get a sense of what the state has prioritised for the next year,
and what is going to be done to improve their quality of life,” Nkomfe. He added that SONA
is an important occasion for the country. “It’s a moment that
highlights government’s central role in the development of the country and the
uplifting of our people. It’s an occasion where protocol and symbolism
befitting the decorum of the occasion is upheld."  “It is also an
occasion where the integrity, transparency and accountability of the State
should be on display. It should be an occasion where government is able to show
that it is indeed in touch with the struggles of ordinary people. President Jacob Zuma,
who is set to deliver SONA, unfortunately,
embodies none of this,” the letter reads. “He is a president
that has for years now been dogged by scandal after scandal related to state capture and corruption. He is a president
who has been found to have flouted the Constitution, and who in the eyes of
most South Africans lacks the credibility and integrity to lead this country.” Also read: Pray for us – Mantashe ahead of top 6 meeting with Zuma “President Zuma
embodies the antithesis of the core principles of what it means to be a good
leader. He embodies ‘misgovernance’.” FutureSA has said for
SONA to be different this year, Zuma must be prevented from delivering the
address. “The ANC has the
power to recall President Zuma from his duties as President of the country before
the SONA address and to send a clear signal that it is embarking on a new path – a
path of true leadership, in tune with the needs of the people, and committed to
good governance and the end of state capture. “Please recall
President Jacob Zuma from office.” The ANC’s top six is
at the Presidential guest house in Tshwane on Sunday night where talks are underway with Zuma
about his future as president of the country. Also read: Cyril must avoid a Zuma Sona 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  