Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille has survived a motion of no confidence vote, find out more about South Africa's new First Lady Tshepo Motsepe and SA rapper Sjava is one of the most remarkable parts of Black Panther's soundtrack. Scroll through some of our top stories: I, Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, swear that I will be faithful to the Republic of SA Cyril Ramaphosa has been inaugurated as South Africa's new president, following Jacob Zuma's resignation. 10 things Ramaphosa should do immediately Here is a list of ten things President Cyril Ramaphosa should immediately do to set the right tone and show that he is not only a man of words, but action. Meet your new First Lady – Tshepo MotsepeA medical doctor, mother of four and wife of Cyril Ramaphosa, Tshepo Motsepe is one strong, talented woman, writes Carmen Williams for W24. Ajay Gupta now a fugitive from the law - Hawks The Hawks have confirmed to News24 that Ajay Gupta is currently a fugitive. This relates to investigations into the Free State Vrede dairy farm project, which saw the Hawks raid various Gupta compounds. Meanwhile, seven of the accused in the matter have been granted bail of 10k and 200k in the Bloemfontein Regional Court. Ajay and Atul Gupta speak to the City Press from the New Age Newspaper's offices in Midrand, Johannesburg, South Africa on 4 March 2011. (Photo by Gallo Images/City Press/Muntu Vilakazi) De Lille survives motion of no confidence City of Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille has survived a motion of no confidence against her. Super Rugby 2018: 5 things to know The Super Rugby season kicks off this weekend, with a slimmed-down format to revitalise a competition that had been criticised as over-bloated and predictable. Black Panther's soundtrack is full of South African artists South African rapper Sjava is one of the most remarkable parts of Black Panther's soundtrack. WATCH: EFF resorts to old tricks in Parliament as Ramaphosa is elected President The EFF once again walked out of the National Assembly on Thursday - this time it wasn't to protest against now former president Jacob Zuma, but rather against the election of his successor, Cyril Ramaphosa.  Mnangagwa mourns Tsvangirai, pledges to hold 'free, fair polls' in his honour Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has conveyed his condolences to the family of the late opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, who died on Wednesday after a battle with cancer. Reporter asks public on Zuma exit and gets effing big surprise It was a night most South Africans have been waiting for, but this local reporter wasn't ready for the reactions. (Warning: Contains strong language)  *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  