A two-month-old baby died in India after being
locked in the back of an ambulance for two hours. The heartbroken
parents arrived at Raipur Railway in Bihar, India, and called Sanjeevani
Express – a free ambulance service – when their baby needed immediate care for a heart ailment on Tuesday 17 July. When they
reached Bhimrao Ambedkar Hospital, the ambulance
driver struggled to open the doors reports Times of India. While the
infant and the father Ambika Kumar were locked in the van, the staff at the
hospital allegedly refused to acknowledge his
request to break the van's windows
and warned him that it would be ‘damaging
government property’, reports  The Sun. "I was
urging them to break the door or window since my kid had cardiac problems but
my efforts were in vain," he said to Hindustan Times. When the
baby was finally taken out of the ambulance it was too late. The
Emergency Management and Research Institute, GVK EMRI, that runs the ambulance
service refused to say whether the baby died because of the door malfunction. Government
relation’s officer Shibu Kumar said the baby, whose name is not known, was already dead before reaching
the hospital. “When the
ambulance reached Ambedkar hospital its doors go stuck for a few minutes. The
technicians then took the baby out of the vehicle through the window.” A police
official told the Daily Pioneer that no charges have been laid
against the ambulance service by the infant’s parents. “The baby’s
condition was already critical. The parents of the infant didn’t approach police
[to] lodge a complaint,” the official said. "If
they’d approached us it [would’ve been] a matter of Section 304 but since the
parents went back without approaching us after cremating the baby here, we haven’t
filed an FIR [First Information Report].” The hospital's superintendent, Vivek Chaudhary,
gave police a [statement] on the negligence of the company as well as the
driver of the ambulance, the police reported. There will
be stern action against the department, Chief Minister Raman Singh said. Sources: Times of India, The Sun, Hindustan Times, Daily Pioneer 