Michelle Nortje (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories “This is very bad for the school and traumatic for the children,” the principal of La Hoff Primary School in Klerksdorp, Anton Smith, told YOU after a learner at the school died following a gruesome accident on Friday night. Aimée Janse van Rensburg (12), a Grade 6 student at La Hoff, died on Tuesday while Hernus Nieuwoudt, a Grade 10 learner at Klerksdorp High School, died on Sunday after incurring serious injuries in the same accident. They’d been out for dinner to celebrate Hernus’ sister Rilanka Nieuwoudt’s 12th birthday. Also in the car, which was driven by Hernus’ mother, Annelize Nieuwoudt, were Hernus’ twin sister Helouise and friends Marchand Nel and Lenike de Beer. Heloise and Marchand are learners at Klerksdorp High while Rilanka and Lenike are at La Hoff Primary. They were on their way back from the Matlosana shopping centre in Klerksdorp when Annelize’s vehicle collided with a truck on the N12. She wasn’t injured in the accident. North West police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Amanda Funani confirmed that Hernus died on Sunday as a result of injuries sustained in the accident. All the passengers in the car were admitted to either the Wilmed Park or Life Anncron hospitals. “Most of the kids are doing well,” Smith said. “Rilanka is still in the intensive care unit but she’s no longer in a critical condition.” La Hoff Primary shared two posts on its Facebook page on Saturday that sent shockwaves through the town and people from all over the country have shared prayers and condolences. The post included details of the accident and a request that people pray for the survivors. The first post, which was shared in the morning, reads:  The second post, which was shared on Saturday night, reads: Funani confirmed that the accident took place at the traffic lights next to the shopping centre. “At this stage it seems the light was green for the car in which the children were travelling and that the truck collided with the car,” she said. “There were six people in the car.” She confirmed that a case of reckless driving was being investigated and that a case of culpable homicide would be opened as soon as the primary investigation has been finalised. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  