Sesona Ngqakamba Religious leaders, under the auspices of the newly-formed Pentagon Prayer Movement, are planning to host a National Day of Prayer (Sesona Ngqakamba, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories God is the only hope to save South Africa from all its ills, religious leaders said on Thursday. The leaders, under the auspices of the newly-formed Pentagon Prayer Movement, are planning to host a National Day of Prayer. The prayer will be held on August 18 at Ellis Park Stadium in Johannesburg. One of the founders of the movement, Bishop Bafana Stephen Zondo, said the high rates of political killings, domestic violence, taxi killings and cash-in-transit heists caused the group to decide to take a stance. He said South Africa needed divine intervention and added that the group was inspired by President Cyril Ramaphosa's "Thuma mina"(Send me) call. "This National Prayer Day is driven by a strong desire to unite all South Africans in prayer. Religious leaders across all denominations have come together as a collective to place South Africa in prayer," Zondo said. "We are now facing 2019 elections and, instead of seeing political organisations also being united, we see them dividing. Things are not looking good in our country with the currency going down and the morale also going down. People have no hope anymore and now it's time for the church to stand up," Zondo said. He added that the prayer day would be a strictly religious event. "We have made it very clear that this is not a political event. I have also [gone] to Luthuli House to make that very clear." However, he added that all political parties had been invited. Zondo said all South Africans, regardless of their religion, were invited to the event, which would also be attended by music artists. Bishop Selven Govender reiterated that the day also aimed to build social tolerance and cohesion among South Africans. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  