Avril Fillies Cecil Ngotya. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Preparations to celebrate the 67 minutes for Mandela is well on the way for the Nyanga Sport Council and will be held on Wednesday 18 July. “We are hosting a Springbok team together with Nonala Productions, the City of Cape Town, Tag Rugby and Mhlobo Wenene Radio Broadcast. We will be visiting elderly institutions and homes where we will clean the facilities and feed the elderly and the community,” said Cecil Ngotya, chairman of the Nyanga Sport Council. The Sport Council is the governing body of all sporting codes in the jurisdiction of Nyanga and surrounds­. “We are responsible for managing sport programmes for the community. We also have Municipal Facility Management Committees (MFMC)’s who managed the municipal facilities to assist sport users with their events in the facilities. The Sport Council is also responsible for the different MFMC’s which runs the daily schedules and fixtures of a specific facility,” Cecil said. The areas that are covered by the Sport Council include Crossroads, Old Location, Mau-Mau, Zwelitsha, KTC, Lusaka Village and Hlazo Village­. “On Youth Day (16 June) we hosted our annual event and it went well. We alternate the event by one year hosting it indoors and the next outdoors. Our next big event is the Norman Mbiko School’s Sevens Tournament that will be held in September­. “Earlier this year we honoured him at a tribute dinner as he was the only living Black Springbok Captain and also as the first Black Springbok Sevens coach, when Chester Williams (Springbok wing) was still playing,” he said. The Sport Council also assist clubs on hosting their individual competitions and team building events. “In 2017 we hosted a Sport Indaba with the aim to revive sport in Nyanga and to build a better working relationship with neighbouring schools as there is a big gap in community and school sport. “All our events are inclusive of schools in the area since we partnered with the schools. Every year we host annual awards ceremonies that includes Lifetime achievements­. “The Norman Mbiko Schools Sevens tournament in September will be in the same format as the Craven Week, currently underway in different parts of the country. The reason for this tournament is because Norman played a big role in rugby in the community in Nyanga and surrounds­. “Players (past and present), administrators, referees and coaches are who they are today because of him and his influence. He encouraged them in achieving all their goals whether personal or in their careers,” Cecil said. According to him sponsorships are the Sport Council’s biggest challenge­. “It is not always easy to find sponsors when we host big events. We rely solely on the department of culture, sport and recreation in the City. Although the department focuses more on school sport than community sport, we have to find sponsors for the latter. We appealed to corporates to come on board but thus far our appeals fell on deaf ears,” Cecil said. Another problem that the Sport Council experience is the lack of management skills at the clubs and lack of help on team buildings. “Despite this we do manage by hosting our own workshops and share our skills of how we can sustain our clubs in our communities. Thanks to the contributions of our ward councillors and sub-council we can run the organisation. To ensure that the safety of patrons attending our events are secure, we have a partnership with the Nyanga Police under the leadership of Brigadier Vuyisile Ncatha. “Nyanga is known as the murder capital in the country and we need sponsors to clamp down the crime in our area. We also need sponsors so we can sustain our important programmes to better the lives of young and old in our communities,” he said. Cecil also shares the sentiment of Madiba that sport is the best weapon to combat crime in the communities­. The community applauded us for the tribute dinner for Norman and received encouraging correspondence from the provincial minister of sport and the government. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  