Cllr Ma Chiliza THE provision of water and sanitation services remains a core constitutional mandate of the municipality and it remains committed to ensuring that these services are delivered without prejudice and limitations. In the new service delivery fiscal year, the municipality has planned for several multimillion rand projects aimed at improving the provision of water and sanitation services throughout the district. Each local municipality has numerous projects that will be funded by the Municipal Infrastructure Grant allocation. Umdoni Municipality: Major service delivery projects that await implementation in the 2018/19 fiscal year include the Mistake Farm Water Supply Scheme for R1,8 million, the Vulamehlo Water Scheme of R1,9 million, the KwaLembe Water Supply Extension for R680 000, Umzinto Waste Water Treatment Works for R8,9 million, the Pennington Waterborne Sewerage for R14,4 million, Malangeni Low Cost Housing for R11,9 million, the Umzinto Slum Clearance: Farm Isonti Low Cost Housing Water and Sanitation Scheme for R500 000 and the Nkonka and pump stations for R4 million. Umzumbe Municipality: Communities under the jurisdiction of Umzumbe Municipality will be beneficiaries of six major projects which include the Mhlabatshane Regional Water Supply Scheme of R7 million, the Mabheleni East Water Supply for R10 million, the Water Pipeline Replacement for R14,1 million, the Mthwalume and KwaQoloqolo Water Supply for R20 million, the Assisi and Morrison Water Supply for R5 million and the KwaHlongwa Water Treatment Works Upgrade for R10 million. Ray Nkonyeni Municipality: The municipality has planned numerous projects for the economic hub of the district. These projects included the KwaXolo Bulk Water Supply Project to cost the municipality R10 million, the Umthamvuna Water Treatment Works extension for R8 million, KwaNyuswa Water Scheme Phase 3 for R6 million, Umzimkhulu Bulk Water Augmentation Scheme for R5 million, Msikaba Water Supply Scheme for R4 million, Water pipeline replacement for R37,9 million, Margate Sewer Pipeline Replacement for R10 million, the Bhobhoyi/Mkholombe Sanitation for R500, Masinenge Uvongo Sanitation for R3 million, KwaLatshoda Water and Sanitation for R550 000 and Hibiscus Coast Sanitation to the tune of R9,5 million. Umuziwabantu Municipality: The Umuziwabantu communities will be beneficiaries of the Harding Weza Regional Bulk Eater Supply for R26,5 million and the Harding Sanitation Scheme Phase 3 which has been allocated a budget of R1,5 million. Towards the maintaining of the rural sanitation services, the municipality has set aside an amount of R2,5 million to vacuum all Ventilated Pit Latrines (VIP) already constructed in the rural communities. These projects will create numerous temporary job opportunities thus positively contributing to government’s continuous efforts in alleviating poverty and unemployment in communities. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  