Nkosazana Ngwadla Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former police officer Eudora Nozizwe Khumalo and her co-accused, Bhekizenzo Mge Ntshangase, were sentenced to life imprisonment for murder, as well 15 years for attempted murder and 10 years on two counts of kidnapping, in the Mtunzini High Court. In March 2016 Ziphozonke Zithulele Nsele (36) and a friend were accused of stealing a cellphone and were taken to Eudora’s house in Empangeni, where they were severely assaulted. Ziphozonke was fatally injured but his friend survived the assault. “The deceased and his friend were put inside the trunk of a vehicle and [the] victim witnessed the accused dumping [Ziphozonke’s] body into a river. The body of Nsele was never recovered. Detectives at Empangeni police [station] conducted the investigation which led to the arrest of five suspects,” Brigadier Jay Naicker of SAPS said. “Three of the accused pleaded guilty in the Pietermaritzburg High Court and were sentenced during May and June this year. Lindokuhle Shabalala was sentenced to 18 years imprisonment for murder and eight years imprisonment for attempted murder; Sicelo Ntshangase was sentenced to 16 years imprisonment for murder and four years imprisonment for attempted murder; while Sakhile Thokozani Bhengu was sentenced to 15 years imprisonment for murder and three years for attempted murder,” he continued. Even though Ziphozonke’s body wasn’t recovered, acting KwaZulu-Natal provincial commissioner lieutenant general Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi praised detectives who worked on the case which led to all of the accused being sentenced for their crime. “This is sterling work by our detectives and indicates very clearly that we do not condone vigilantism even when one of our own is a perpetrator. It is very disappointing to find a police officer breaking the law. Our police officers are trained to uphold the law and they have to work within the framework of legal prescripts. We expect our police officers to always comply with the laws of the country and if they don’t, they will receive the same treatment as every other criminal,” Mkhwanazi said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  