Carla Coetzee Riaan Conradie. (PHOTO: Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 14-year-old boy was seriously injured in a hit-and-run incident while on his way to school in Pretoria North on Monday morning. Police are investigating a case of reckless driving and negligence after a motorist in her late sixties reported to local police that she had knocked someone over. Riaan Conradie was on his way to the Suiderberg High School when the car allegedly hit him as he was walking on the pavement. Riaan lives in Gracia Child & Youth Care Centre, a place of safety, where his mother Debra is one of the house mothers. "Both his legs are broken and his one lung collapsed," Anne-Marie Laubscher, who works at Gracia, told YOU. "He was taken to the Steve Biko Academic Hospital.” She said the incident happened just metres from the home and a witness ran to Gracia to alert them. "The next thing we knew [the witness] was gone too, so we don't know much more than that," she said. "None of the other kids were with Riaan when he was hit. "We've reported the matter to the police." 'Reckless driving and negligence' Police spokesperson Sergeant Tembi Nwathe confirmed the incident. "A woman in her late sixties this morning (Monday) informed officers at the Pretoria North police station that she'd hit someone with her car just before 6am. "A case of reckless driving and negligence has been opened." According to Nwathe, the driver said she didn't stop because it was still dark outside and she hadn't immediately realised she'd hit a person. "It's not going well [with Riaan]," Laubscher said. "They have to operate on his legs but they can't do that before he's more stable.” The boy was sedated and is struggling to breathe on his own because one of his lungs was badly damaged. "We're just hoping and praying he'll be okay because he badly needs that operation [on his legs]. His legs were badly broken. Please pray – it's all we can do right now." Local DA councillor Yolanda Duvenage confirmed that a 14-year-old who had two broken legs had been admitted to Steve Biko Hospital and was having trouble breathing. Gracia posted the information on its Facebook page.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  