Vuyo Mkize Sumaya Hendricks’s research is concentrating on township crèches that are not receiving support (City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories In 1995, a year into his presidency, Nelson Mandela
announced he would be donating a third of his presidential salary to the Nelson
Mandela Children's Fund. Prompted by the sight of street children near Parliament in
the Cape Town winter, Mandela aimed to improve the lives of children whose
parents had died of Aids-related illnesses, children who had been abandoned on
the streets, and the poor and disabled. Fast-forward 23 years, and current president Cyril Ramaphosa
has followed suit, announcing in May this year during his Presidency Budget
Vote that he would donate half his R3.6m annual salary to a fund that will be
managed by the Nelson Mandela Foundation, directing the proceeds to worthy
community-based projects. After being presented with options, City Press learnt,
Ramaphosa has also chosen children. The fund will be launched on Mandela Day on
Wednesday. Early childhood development However, the foundation has already made some headway
through The Mandela Initiative in earmarking some development areas to
prioritise, one of which is early childhood development (ECD). The foundation roped in the expertise of dialogue analyst
Sumaya Hendricks, who helped set up its new poverty and inequality unit, which
also encompasses early childhood development in its key focus areas. "Research has shown that the cognitive, emotional and
social development of children all happens before the age of six,"
Hendricks says. "According to the South African Early Childhood Review
from last year, if a four-year-old child is in one of the 20% of poorest
households, there's only a 50% chance of them attending some sort of education
programme. "Universal access to schooling in South Africa
unfortunately only starts in Grade 1 with free schooling. That means a child
from a poor family would already be entering at a disadvantage," she says. "Schools assume a child will come in with a form of
basic competency, but many children are entering at a disadvantage." The Mandela Initiative Report, which will also be launched
next week, states that while some early childhood services, notably in the
areas of health, are mainly provided by the government, others have relied
heavily on not-for-profit organisations (NPOs) for childcare and group learning
programmes. NPO sector 'overstretched' The NPO sector delivering services to young children is,
according to the report "overstretched and under-resourced", and even
where subsidies are available, there are problems with registration and
compliance. Hendricks and her team have been conducting research in
Diepsloot, an informal settlement in northern Johannesburg, and in Bekkersdal
in Westonaria, western Gauteng. There they have met with ECD forums
representing informal crèches in childcare centres to access the needs on the
ground, and their barriers to accessing registration and funding to create more
conducive areas of learning and development for children. "Our focus is answering how we give children from poor
and working class families the best chance at a prosperous future,'"
Hendricks says. "Our five objectives are highlighting the field of ECD
as a tool for fighting intergenerational poverty, advocating policy changes
that need to happen, improving the conditions at the centres, bringing exposure
to the challenges that informal centres experience, and increasing awareness
with parents and caregivers on the importance of early childhood development. "A key part of what we want to do is elevating the
voices of grass roots and community organisations, and connecting them with
government. We have ECD practitioners who will be recognised by our chief
executive, Sello Hatang, in the Nelson Mandela Annual Lecture for active
citizenship. Both are from Diepsloot, and both saw a need in their community to
create centres to stimulate children during the day." Registration But it is hard going for most of these centres. They
struggle to become registered because they don't have title deeds to the land
on which their centres are built, and they therefore cannot receive funding
from the department of social development. In addition, most of these creches
do not meet the regulation standards for space, without features such as
designated "sick rooms", for example. "Some of the centres are small and really cramped. They're
really not getting any support," says Hendricks. "If one gets funding from the state, it's R15 per child
per day but it's unlikely those centres will get that registration and funding
because of the stringent requirements. "Obviously, the requirements are important to make sure
the children are safe, but if you know, as a caring government, that informal
settlement centres have no way to meet the requirements, particularly from a
space point of view, why not create an enabling environment?" Hendricks said it was significant that Ramaphosa will be
investing his earnings in the early childhood development programme. "If the president can say, 'Early childhood development
is important to me and I'm willing to put my money towards it', we're hoping it
shows leadership in the sector and inspires others to also give it priority."  TALK TO US Do you think all politicians should donate a portion of
their salary to good causes? SMS us on 35697 using the keyword DONATION and
tell us what you think. Please include your name and province. SMSes cost R1.50 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  