Canny Maphanga ANCYL secretary general Njabulo Nzuza (File, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) is blaming its former leaders for the organisation's liquidation. On Thursday, the South Gauteng High Court ruled in favour of Western Cape Premier Helen Zille, who was seeking payment from a defamation case. The judgment has subsequently left the ANC Youth League bankrupt. The matter relates to an incident in 2010 where former leaders Julius Malema, Andile Lili and Floyd Shivambu allegedly referred to Zille as a racist. OPINION: Young Lions must roar again "Both parties involved made a private arrangement to settle the matter outside court," ANCYL secretary general Njabulo Nzuza said in a statement issued on Monday. However, the former ANCYL leaders failed to pay the legal fees as agreed, Nzuza said. According to City Press, advocate Hugo de Waal, who represented Zille in the matter, applied for the liquidation order against the league in November. De Waal said in court papers that Zille had transferred her right to recover the costs, totalling R93 218.09 plus interest, to him. ANCYL consulting lawyers Hein von Lieres, De Waal's attorney, said the ANCYL sent him proof of payment on the night after the liquidation order was granted. He was reported as saying that it made no difference as the league had already been liquidated. However, the ANCYL insists that it has settled its debts. ALSO READ: ANCYL sets up team of lawyers as it prepares members for national conference "We wish to categorically state that the leadership has fulfilled its legal obligation and paid the said debt after communicating with the affected parties," Nzuza said. The ANCYL says the matter was only brought to its attention recently. "The recent legal bill is one of the many issues the ANCYL inherited from the former structure under the leadership of Mr Malema. It should be said that this matter was never handed over as a result of the disbandment of the previous structure of the ANCYL," Nzuza added. The ANCYL is currently in consultation with its lawyers to settle the matter "as speedily as possible".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  