News24 Ghana President Nana Akufo-Addo (L) and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa shake hands after addressing a joint press conference following their meeting at the Union Building in Pretoria, during Akufo-Addo's official state visit. (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Ties between South Africa and Ghana will be strengthened with the establishment of a bi-national commission that will see the countries' respective presidents meet twice a year, the Presidency announced on Thursday. "The BNC (bi-national commission) will meet bi-annually alternating between Accra and Pretoria and will create the required momentum and impetus in our bilateral cooperation," said President Cyril Ramaphosa in a speech delivered at the Union Buildings to mark the state visit by President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo. The speech was posted on the Presidency's website. Extending a warm welcome to the Ghanaian president, Ramaphosa said that the state visit allowed the countries to "renew our fraternal bonds and friendship". He said that during meetings, both heads of state felt "great satisfaction" about their current ties. Ramaphosa said that the twenty-one bilateral agreements between South Africa and Ghana were at "different stages of implementation" and that both presidents had directed ministers to finalise negotiations for all of them "in the shortest period of time". The increase in economic cooperation between the two countries was highlighted. Call for UN Security Council reform "We noted with appreciation the ever-increasing presence of the South African private sector in the economy of Ghana." Ramaphosa said that both governments would ensure there was an "enabling environment" to do business in both countries. A joint business forum is set to take place on Thursday afternoon. For South Africa and Ghana key sectors for investment are manufacturing, agro-processing, infrastructure development, mining, energy and tourism. Ramaphosa said that both presidents noted concerns with instability and conflict in some neighbouring countries. On the international front he said they reiterated their "call for the reform of the global system of governance in particular the United Nations Security Council to be more equitable and representative of all regions of the world". * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your
inbox: SUBSCRIBE
TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  