Reporter THIRSTY visitors will be able to warm up with a glass or two of their favourite beverage when the Tops at SPAR Wine Show transforms the Boardwalk into a winter WINEderland from tomorrow, Thursday, July 26, to Saturday, July 28. Festive evenings of wine-tasting, wine-speak and enjoyable moments of friendship have again been made possible by the local liquor store. According to SPAR Eastern Cape sponsorship and events manager Alan Stapleton, a national decision was taken three years ago to continue branding Tops at SPAR to the communities after the previous events were cancelled. “This is the fourth year that Tops at SPAR has the naming rights to the event, which is organised by The Wine Show and the sponsorship will continue until 2020. “To be associated with the biggest wine shows in the country is something we’re immensely proud of. It’s a wonderful way to share the love and have lots of fabulous fun with our customers,” Stapleton said. A feature of the show will be the award-winning Olive Brook Range from the SPAR private collection portfolio. There will also be three theatre presentations over the three days and in addition to this there will be at least 42 different wine estates represented. Stapleton felt it was an opportunity for winemakers to see what the public’s needs were and how best to make wines to suit various palates. “We encourage people to come and have fun with Tops at SPAR and experience some of the best wines that the country has to offer. “To date, PE has always been the country’s biggest event,” Stapleton added. Andrew Douglas, owner and producer of the show, endorsed Stapleton’s statements, stating that it was a wonderful platform that connected some of the country’s finest producers to a domestic audience. “The event is staged in a fun, themed and entertaining environment that is conducive to learning, whether you’re a beginner or a connoisseur,” Douglas said. He added that it provided producers with access to a wine-buying and wine-curious audience from all walks of life. “Producers interact directly with the general public in a meaningful way. The show has invested significantly, with the assistance of their headline sponsor, in a range of exciting new elements. “These include enhanced wine-themed decor such as cork statues and chandeliers made from recycled wine bottles, a private premium tasting experience, a wine for beginners installation supported by Stellenbosch Vineyards and an exciting free shipping offer for consumers buying by the case,” Douglas said. Tickets, which include a tasting glass and access to the theatres, range from R140 to R495 and are available from the event’s Facebook page. Show starts at 17:00 to 21:00 on Thursday and Friday, July 26 and 27, and on Saturday, July 28, the show starts at 15:00 to 21:00. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  