Nosipho Mkhize Heavens Kitchen team at one of their initiatives for Heavens Gift.PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories HEAVENS Kitchen’s newly established initiative, called Heavens Gift, aims at caring and showing love to those who are neglected in the community. Heavens Kitchen Founder Kayleigh Symes said: “Heavens Gift was established this year in January. We saw a huge need for help among the rural hospitals, schools and orphanages. “Our hearts burn for the less fortunate and there are so many less fortunate children right around the corner from us. Being unwanted, unloved, uncared for, forgotten by everybody — I think that is a much greater hunger, a much greater poverty than a person who has nothing to eat. “We visit either a school, an orphanage, or a hospital once a week, or as often as we can. We want to see children giving their lives to Jesus. “We also make sure that we show them love and spend some quality time with them. We give them cupcakes, hot dogs, sandwiches, soup and fruits.” She added that Heavens Kitchen is a charity organisation that was founded in 2014. “Every Thursday evening we feed around 200 homeless people and every Monday evening we have a Soul Seeking Soup Fellowship (SSSF) initiative. “We also have a local bakery that supplies the homeless with bread and the other donations we receive from the volunteers and the local community. “We supply goodie bags for about 150 people every month. The goodie bags are filled with toiletries, candles, matches, lip ointment and tinned food. We do this to make their lives on the streets a bit easier . “My heart burns for the poor, that’s why we decided, in winter 2014, to start assisting the homeless, as it was a really cold winter. We then decided to cook up soup or stews to provide them with nutritious meals. All ingredients for the meals are supplied and donated by the people in the community. If someone offers to cook then my team and I rally to get donations to provide the ingredients for the meal.” On behalf of Heavens Kitchen, Symes pleads with the community to sponsor food. “We need sponsoring of food for the different initiatives that we conduct. We take something different for each initiative and sometimes the number of people we can help changes now and again,” she said. For more information on Heavens Gift and Heavens Kitchen drop off points or how you can help send an e-mail to hello@heavenskitchen3610.co.za 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  