Alex Mitchley Brett Herron explained to the court what housing options the residents had. (Jenna Etheridge, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A resolution passed by City of Cape Town council earlier this week is expected to get the ball rolling in expediting housing opportunities across the city. According to a statement by the City of Cape Town, the city's Transport and Urban Development Authority (TDA) will now conclude the four contracts for the appointment of multi-disciplinary teams tasked with overseeing the successful implementation of housing developments. "These teams - one for each of the City's four areas - will consist of a number of professionals," said mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron. "They will oversee and monitor the planning, design, and construction of thousands of housing opportunities across Cape Town." READ: Western Cape govt identifies 7 possible affordable housing sites A resolution had to be passed through the city's council because the contracts will be in place for longer than three years. The city approved the appointments to be made on Thursday. "The go-ahead from Council enables the TDA to streamline our planning processes, and thus, to expedite the delivery of housing opportunities," Herron said. "Given that the contracts are in place for longer than three years, it means we do not need to issue a new tender for the appointment of multi-disciplinary teams for each and every housing project in the medium term. This way, we already have a team of professionals ready in all four areas of the City who can immediately get working a new housing project." Investment Herron explained that initially, the multi-disciplinary teams will work on at least 12 housing developments across Cape Town. These developments will provide approximately 13 000 housing opportunities and together amount to an investment of approximately R184m. "They will also get working on new projects as these are approved and budgeted for." "The housing opportunities will become available within the next two to three years, depending on the type of development and the area where the development is taking place." He added that the developments will include all housing typologies including rental accommodation, site-and-serviced erven, double-storey units, double- and single-story semi-detached units, as well as double- and single-storey free-standing units. "Where required, the developments will include community facilities, open spaces where residents can socialise, and commercial and retail opportunities." The contracts will be funded using the Urban Settlements Development Grant, as well as from the Housing Development Capital Fund, Herron said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  