Nosipho Mkhize PHOTO: suppliedBuild it Pinetown store manager Justin Hardouin, Mazarat Animal Rescue chairman Andy Blazeby, Build it Pinetown sales consultant Sonto Ndelu, and Build it Pinetown Supervisor Keith Young. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories MAZARAT Animal Rescue, a registered NPO and PBO, is rebuilding a set of rescue kennels, with the help of local businesses and community members, and is appealing to the community for further assistance. Mazarat Animal Rescue spokesperson Carla Raaths said: “We are a local pro quality life rescue shelter based in Waterfall. We are trying to rebuild a set of rescue kennels in order to create a rescue centre with improved living conditions and less stressful kennelling for rescue dogs that are already confused and stressed. “We are re-building rescue kennels because, in their unfinished state,they are not suitable to use as healthy living quarters for the dogs, nor were they structurally sound. “Andy, our chairman, and a team of three workers have worked tirelessly over the past few weeks, knocking down what was unstable, cutting and cleaning blocks to be saved and re-used, digging trenches for drainage etc. But, in order for this project to come to fruition, we desperately need donations in the form of financial and community support. “We are a small rescue organisation but we have countless e-mails and phone calls weekly, if not daily, from desperate folk who ask that we take in or assist in rescuing or re-homing dogs and cats. These innocent pets find themselves homeless or ownerless due to deaths in the family, job losses, emigration, and elderly owners not able to take companions into retirement homes and even divorces. It is very sad but we persevere with what little we have, to help as many as we can,” she said She added that Build It Pinetown have generously covered two thirds of the first sections building material. “We are so grateful to them for their support. This is what community is all about. We are proud to be working with Build It Pinetown and they deserve the recognition for supporting rescues and their community.” “Build It Bothas Hill branch also came to our rescue, donating more building materials. Their generosity is overwhelming. Build it can be commended for reinforcing social responsibility within their own communities,” Raaths said. She said Chris Barnard of Handyman Durban and his team have also stepped up and sponsored labour to help start the actual building process. “Although he is not able to build the whole project, he has started us off and for that we are truly thankful.” She said the end goal is a rescue centre of 14 rescue kennels, one recovery kennel, an outdoor run, grooming and first aid/treatment room, kitchenette, food storage room and an office. “This will be run by our Mazarat Animal Rescue staff member and kennel assistant Mbongeni Gumede, our committee members, and part-time volunteer team.” If anyone would like to donate or get involved in this initiative please contact Andy Raaths on 083 225 2886 or Carla Raaths on 084 4911 452. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  