Earl Haupt @Earlhaupt The First Steenberg Scouts have set their eyes on honouring the elderly by embarking on a project which they hope will bring a smile and sense of warmth during the heart of winter. “On 15 July, the Cheetah Patrol and some of the other boys will go to an old age home in Steenberg, Mandoline Place. We will be doing a little high tea for them. The boys and their parents took their pocket money and they are going to hand out cake boxes and some tea and coffee to the elderly over there,” says Candice Mentor. Leader of the First Scouts Sergio Jonas confirms that the boys, aged between 10 and 13, will visit the home, while also providing a programme of entertainment for the residents­. “It’s always heart-warming to see what these young boys and girls are capable of doing, by not always putting their own need first, but the needs of others. This will really help make them good leaders in the future,” says Jonas. The group welcomes any donations from the public in aid of the event as they are still collecting items and ingredients and would appreciate the community’s assistance. “If they want to donate anything else like cakes, tea or coffee they are more than welcome to do so, because we come from impoverished areas, because some of these boys don’t even have [anything]. “What my son and I did were ask if there were not people who could donate. If people are willing to come and help us, we will appreciate it,” says Mentor. While this initiative is not the only project which they have undertaken, Mentor and her son felt the need to pay attention to the elderly, as they feel the elderly are often neglected­. “Some of our other boys did other projects throughout the year already and when I spoke to my son, we decided we’d rather do the next project for the elderly. “Our children do need a lot of assistance and to be fed, but I think we neglect the elderly. This project is also to honour the elderly as well, because they paved the way for many of us,” she says, adding that the project will also provide a valuable lesson to the boys in the process. “I feel that if you honour the elderly then you will be blessed and that is what we want for our children, for them to also see that they are also going to be old one day and not all facilities are well kept. “It is not all facilities which are a place of comfort for the elderly. Some of them don’t want to be there, but if these kids are thinking of them, at least they are going to make their day.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  