Pule Letshwiti Six-year-old allegedly beaten by teacher (Veronica Quavana) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A six-year-old learner was allegedly beaten by his teacher at a school on Grootvlei Farm in Alexandria district in June. He was later hospitalized in Port Alfred, Eastern Cape. Although this matter was reported to police and a case was opened, the mother of the child Veronica Quavana told Drum that nothing has been done to bring her son justice. “He was stitched five times and we haven’t been assisted by anyone until today”, she explained. “My child doesn’t want to go back to school, he is scared”. The Alexandria police station in the Eastern Cape confirmed that the incident did take place and that it is still under investigation. Speaking to Drum the Eastern Cape Department of Education MEC, spokesperson Mali Mtima, said that one of the challenges they are currently facing is that schools are currently closed and therefore they were unable to talk to the principle of the school, however investigations are still underway. “We are only hearing the matter for the first time so now we are going to investigate it,” he said. “Corporal punishment has been abolished in South Africa. Therefore the investigations will start from the fact that corporal punishment has been abolished and that whoever practices it will be under investigation.” DA shadow MEC for education in the Eastern Cape Edmund Van Vuuren said that 18 cases of physical and sexual abuse by teachers were reported to the department between 2015 and 2018. “Of the 18 cases received, eight teachers were found guilty and two of the eight teachers were dismissed for assault and corporal punishment.” “What was also shocking is that 60% these cases took place at the primary schools. Some of which were unresolved,” he explained. Van Vuuren further added that he was told of this case and believed that it would be resolved. “I was told that Director of the Department of education's Sarah Baartman District Nicky de Bruyn was to bring this disastrous case to the department. I was also told the matter will receive urgent attention and investigation,” he concluded. Drum approached Nicky De Bruyn and she said that she was well aware of the situation. “I have already submitted my first report to the director of Labor Relations. My close up report is due next week.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  