Heilie Combrinck  Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories “What counts is not the mere fact that we have lived. It is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will determine the significance of the life we lead.” 
 - Nelson Mandela Mandela Day 2018 is particularly significant as it marks Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday on July 18th. This year the focus will be on shelter, volunteerism, education, literacy and food security. Each year on this day, we need to look back on what has been done, and forward to what needs to be done. Uitenhage Child & Family Welfare Society in partnership with PG Glass Uitenhage last year tackled a project in an effort to better the life of the poverty stricken, sick and unemployed Nukazi Phakati who lives in Mandelaville, Uitenhage with her two children. “Her house had window frames, but without glass they were covered with cardboards. “She had only one bed, no furniture, the doors were dilapidated, no carpets, no dishes or pans and no curtains,” said Nombulelo Nkabalaza, a social worker at the Uitenhage Child & Family Welfare Society. “When we requested PG Glass for assistance with the windows, they did not hesitate and immediately fixed all the windows of the four bedroom RDP house. Phakati also received a bed, mattress, bedding, dishes and most of the items she lacked at home. “It was good to see how our 67 Minutes have changed her life. She is really struggling and trying to make the best of her situation,” said Nkabalaza. Sitting outside in the sun, next to a fire where Nukazi Phakati was boiling water, she said it was “a beautiful day when they all arrived and changed her house and her life. It was a huge surprise, I did not expect that! “Life is not easy out here, we are struggling. I am really thankful for how they have blessed us on Mandela Day,” said Phakati. Nelson Mandela has been making an imprint on the world for 67 years, beginning in 1942 when he first started to campaign for the human rights of every South African. By devoting 67 minutes of your time on July 18th you can make a small gesture of solidarity with humanity and a step towards a global movement for good. Take action, inspire change, make every day a Mandela Day! “There can be no greater gift than that of giving one’s time and energy to helping others without expecting anything in return.” -Nelson Mandela. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  