Unathi Obose This picture, purportedly taken at KDH and shows patients, sitting in waiting rooms, with no visible assistance, went viral on social media. PHOTO: fACEBOOK Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Khayelitsha Development Forum has strongly criticised the Khayelitsha District Hospital (KDH) for poor service delivery and has urged the national government to intervene as a result. The forum has said the hospital is in crisis and needs to be rescued. Malibongwe Badi, KDF secretary, said on Tuesday: “The hospital is facing serious challenges. In a space of seven days we received a report of two people dying in the hospital because of negligence. One died last Saturday and other on Monday because they were not attended to.” Badi added that a patient can spend between three and five days before being attended to by doctors, while others were discharged even before they have recovered from their illnesses. He said his organisation has met with hospital management to discuss the state of hospital­. “We are calling the hospital to make temporary arrangements with other hospitals. If KDH is full, they can transfer patients to other hospitals like Tygerberg or Karl Bremer. We also proposed that the hospital partners with varsities so for their students to do internships to assist the staff,” he said. Badi said they understand that people died in hospital of their sickness, but theyshould not die because of negligence. The Department of Health’s principal communications officer in Khayelitsha and the Eastern substructure, Sithembiso Magubane, said the department acknowledges the service is under pressure and that there is a huge demand for beds, resulting in patients with non-life threatening conditions sometimes having to wait longer. “The situation is not unique to Khayelitsha Hospital, which is occasionally reflected in photographs of patients waiting in our Emergency Centre. “The KDH has about 300 beds and currently operates at a 130% bed occupancy rate as it provides district and regional healthcare,” said Magubane. He said the hospital does refer patients to other specialist hospitals when they require further specialist treatment. “There are a number of plans and interventions planned for the hospital to improve its services, some of which have been put into operation, while others are in the process of implementation. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  