Byrone Athman Some of the members who occupied the land on Chota Motala Road at the Mountain Rise Police Station. PHOTO: byrone athman Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE land invaders who previously occupied private land on Chota Motala Road, backed by the EFF, are refusing to be deterred in their efforts to take ownership of it. After heading to the Mountain Rise police station last Wednesday to open a case against the police after being forcibly removed from the site, and allegedly being called the “k-word”, the 50-plus members of the group hoping to claim the land for themselves remain adamant that they will get the land. The land, owned by Realgem Investment, was occupied by the members who erected an informal settlement. Two weeks ago, the Msunduzi Municipality visited the area and demolished the makeshift structures, angering those occupying the property. However, after meeting with the police, EFF councillor Khumbulani Nene said that the members had decided against occupying the land just yet. “We still have various meetings to work on, such as meeting with the owners of the land, as our meetings with people thus far have not worked,” said Nene. Nene said that the group of people were still not sure who the owners of the land are as they had received varied responses of ownership although local ward councillor Renesha Jugmohan has assured the Maritzburg Fever that police had confirmed and relayed to the people that the land was privately owned. “I am unable to be physically involved as the property does not belong to the municipality and therefore the owners need to ensure that they have adequate security in place,” she said. Captain Nqobile Gwala, the spokesperson for the police, said that all parties would soon meet again to discuss plans going forward and that, for now, charges of theft and crimen injuria had been opened. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  