Franco Havenga Christopher Bonus and Kelly Bain. (PHOTO: Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories “My world
has fallen apart,” says 34-year-old Christopher Bonus of his state of mind
after a suspected burglar killed his fiancée, Kelly Bain (26), on Wednesday in
the couple’s home in Brymore, Port Elizabeth. “I’m being
supported by my family, friends and colleagues,” Christopher told YOU in a
telephone interview. The
knife-wielding intruder stabbed Kelly in the neck and arm at about 12.30 pm,
according to police spokesman Captain Johan Rheeder. “Kelly was
on maternity leave and I went home at lunchtime to check on her and our
daughter,” Christopher explained. The
intruder was in the house when he arrived and he wrestled with the man before
he fled. Though not
injured in the struggle, Christopher, who owns a plastics company, says he
feels traumatised and won’t be staying at the house where his wife tragically
died for the time being. He and his baby daughter will stay with family. The child
was found unharmed in the living room, while the couple’s domestic worker had
apparently been locked into the bathroom during the break-in. “Our
domestic worker is also unharmed but I haven’t really spoken to her yet – I’m
keeping my statements for the police,” Christopher said. Supported
by Kelly’s family, Christopher also had to break the news of her mother’s death
to Kelly’s five-year-old daughter from a previous relationship. “She’s
shocked but I think she’ll be okay. I don’t think it’s really sunk in yet,” he
said. No arrests
have been made. “Video footage of a man possibly fitting the description
Christopher gave was recorded near the scene,” Captain Rheeder said. The footage
was probably recorded by CCTV and ADT cameras, Christopher said, adding that
the police haven’t given him any further information. He’s unsure
what the intruder stole but said he’d noticed the jewellery and engagement ring
Kelly was wearing had been removed. The couple
were planning to get married soon but hadn’t set a date yet, he said. “I’m strong
because I have my daughter and she’ll always remind me of Kelly,” Christopher
said. “She made
me more of a man and father than I ever could’ve been.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  