Mahlatse Mahlase The king of Saudi Arabia, Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (right) meets with President Cyril Ramaphosa in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Fresh from raising $20bn (R265bn) in investments, President
Cyril Ramaphosa has challenged critics who claim that he is weak, insisting
instead that he is effective and is driven by a desire to unite the ANC. Ramaphosa was speaking during a wide-ranging interview
following visits to Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates this
week. Speaking at the end of the trip, Ramaphosa: - Denied that he had knelt before Goodwill Zwelithini when
he met the Zulu king last week to address the Ingonyama Trust controversy; - Said he refused to be a "dictator" and would
always follow former president Nelson Mandela's leadership style; - Pledged to continue with his mission to clean up
state-owned enterprises; and - Said he would act on international investment projects
that were signed by his predecessor Jacob Zuma but that had not taken off. Ramaphosa conceded that he was seen as weak when he delayed
recalling Zuma after he was elected as the president of the ANC in December,
and when he delayed removing former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo, who
faced a violent mass revolt in his province. "I will give you a good example. Before president Zuma
resigned, there were those who said: 'You are a weak president. Why haven't you
kicked Zuma out, why haven't you dealt with him?' "I said I would rather be seen as a weak president than
split the ANC because that is not my mission. My mission is to keep the ANC
united and I intend to succeed in having the ANC united." The sentiment that he is weak has largely come from those who
campaigned for him to ascend to the presidency as they are frustrated that he
is taking too long to dismantle the Zuma faction that still controls some
provinces. 'I am not the dictator of the ANC' Ramaphosa chuckled when asked if he was in charge of the
still-divided party. "I am the president of the ANC, I am not a dictator of
the ANC. The ANC has a national executive committee that is given the
responsibility of leading the ANC in between conferences," he said. "The ANC's ethos and culture has always been collective
leadership, and we are not going to depart from that because some people want
to see a dictatorial leader who will tell people this is what you are going to
do or else … "We don't work like that in the ANC. We build
consensus, you take everyone along with you and that is the style of leadership
that has always been used." Despite the unity rhetoric in the party, there is an
anti-Ramaphosa faction that wants an early national general council (NGC) to be
held so that Ramaphosa can be recalled. This campaign is said to be run from Zuma supporter
strongholds, including KwaZulu-Natal, the Free State and North West. "NGC or no NGC, I am on a mandate to unite the ANC,"
the president said. The anti-Ramaphosa group is using provincial elective
conferences to gain a strong foothold in the governing party, while his
supporters have suffered major blows in provinces including the Free State. Despite the hostility, Ramaphosa said he was committed to
Mandela's leadership style of finding consensus on contentious issues in the
party. He said the risk of a split following a heavily contested
presidential contest was real. "After the Polokwane conference, there was contestation
that finally led to the splitting of one group that left the ANC and, yes, that
did weaken the ANC. Once they had left, it seemed like everything was okay, but
it did have an impact on the ANC," he said. "This time around, what we have successfully managed to
do – and what the ANC and its leadership must be credited for – is that we have
not split." Uphill battle in KZN Ramaphosa is fighting an uphill battle to win over
KwaZulu-Natal after the province failed to win a top-six position and Zuma was
recalled. He is also now facing criticism over his handling of
Zwelithini's thinly veiled threats of violence and secession. The province is key to the ANC because it provides the party
with a sizeable number of voters ahead of next year's elections. Ramaphosa has dismissed as "laughable" and "untrue"
reports that he knelt before the king. His office clarified a social media post
that showed Ramaphosa kneeling next to Zwelithini. The picture was taken last
year, the presidency said. "I find it laughable that people see how I was showing
the king my book [on Ankole cattle] – it was just a posture – and people are
suggesting I was kneeling before the king, which is a complete untruth because,
if anything, they should say: 'Look at the president showing the king his
cattle,'" he said. Ramaphosa said he visited Zwelithini to quell the perception
that the ANC was "attacking" the Zulu people and the Ingonyama Trust. However, the ANC has been seen to be contradicting itself on
the expropriation of land without compensation issue, as it wants people to own
land, but has promised Zwelithini that the vast amount of land that he controls
won't be touched. This could essentially result in a two-tier land policy
system, which could be challenged. "On communal land, we need to be clear. We are firm in
saying there should be no two-tier system. Our people are entitled to land and
section 25 of the Constitution speaks about ownership for all our people. They
are entitled to security of tenure," Ramaphosa said. Progress on cleaning up state-owned enterprises On cleaning up state-owned enterprises, Ramaphosa said he
was happy with the progress so far. "Boards are being recalibrated and we are now putting
people who are fit for purpose to deliver on the developmental agenda. "We will soon announce a state-owned enterprise
presidential council to have structure to coordinate everything we do in them.
Particularly those with a bigger impact on the economy of the country," he
added. Ramaphosa rounded off his trip with a $10 billion investment
pledge from Saudi Arabia and a similar amount from the United Arab Emirates.
Both countries are looking to access the South African markets to diversify
their largely oil-dependent economies. The $20bn investments give Ramaphosa's ambitious plan to
attract $100bn in investment over five years a boost. The investments are part
of his drive to kick-start the struggling economy, which saw record
unemployment rates and deepening poverty under Zuma. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates want to invest
largely in the energy and tourism sectors, respectively, with Riyadh showing
interest in building a refinery in South Africa. "We are in this and not playing around. We are serious.
This is about the growth of our economy and we are extremely serious about
being businesslike," he said. However, the three-day, three-country trip began in Nigeria,
where Ramaphosa faced an anti-South African sentiment as investors and
journalists demanded an action plan to end the "attacks on and killings of"
Nigerian citizens living in South Africa. The attacks formed part of his talks with President
Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday.  TALK TO US How do you feel about the Ramaphosa presidency so far? Do
you feel he has pursued a unity card at the expense of acting decisively? SMS us on 35697 using the keyword PRESIDENT and tell us what
you think. Please include your name and province. SMSes cost R1.50 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  