Siphelele Nketo COMMUNITY members of Ward 8 in Sihoyini Village in Umzimkhulu said they cast their votes in 1994, with the hope of a better future, but till today, their lives have not improved. This community has to obtain water from a nearby stream, which puts their lives at risk of coming into contact with infections and diseases. Community member, Xolani Ndlozini who has been living in the village for more than 40 years said people endure an inferior quality of life. He said he was 19-years-old when the country entered into the new democratic era in 1994 as he voted for the first time. “When I cast my first vote in 1994, there was hope of a better future in our village. But we use wood to make fire and get water from streams which animals also drink from,” said Ndlozini. He said 20 villagers met with Umzimkhulu Municipality officials with the purpose of getting answers about water and electricity in 2015, and after few days of the meeting they saw electricity poles being put in the village, but these were later taken to other villages. He said schools make use of water tanks to get water. Another villager said some people depend on rainfall to get water and during dry seasons like winter, they find themselves struggling for the basic commodity. Harry Gwala District Municipal spokesperson Ndabezitha Tenza said the municipality is aware about water shortages in the area. He said they are busy planning for immediate intervention. With regard to the electricity shortage, Umzimkhulu Municipality municipal spokesperson, Willie Mgcina, said he will respond next week. However, he said a meeting with a ward councillor from Mfulamhle village was convened this week after community members from Mfulamhle embarked on a protest, also over an electricity shortage. “As municipality we would like to caution everyone who embark on protest to refrain from destroying government infrastructure,” said Mgcina. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  