Sara Mokoka A man has been charged with criminal endangerment after telling police a baby boy was buried under a pile of firewood, Metro UK reported. Authorities said they were called at 8pm on Saturday, 7 July about a man threatening people in the Lolo Hot Springs area of western Montana's Lolo Forest in the US. After deputies detained the man, later identified as 32-year-old Francis Crowley, he let it be known that a baby was buried somewhere in the woods. The sheriff’s office promptly put together a team of federal, state and local officials who searched the area of the national forest for six hours. At about 2:30am on Sunday, 8 July a deputy heard a baby’s cry. The baby was taken to a hospital and put into the custody of the state Division of Child and Family Services. Spokesman Chuck Council refused to answer any questions about where the child will be placed or how the baby will be taken care of, due to medical privacy laws. “The baby suffered only minor injuries despite being found in a wet romper in freezing temperatures,” authorities said in an interview with the ABC news. Police have called it a ‘miracle’ and the baby is now in a stable condition after the incident in Montana. The sheriff’s office said, “For all of us at the sheriff’s office, this is what we call a miracle. For the officers who were present for this event, it’s especially hard knowing what this small baby endured in the past 24 hours.” Police say Crowley is being held on ($50,000) R671 350 for bail. There was no information on whether Crowley had an attorney or not. The nature of Crowley’s relationship to the baby has not been determined. Crowley is from Portland, Oregon, and had previously been arrested in June in Missoula on a fugitive warrant from Oregon, Time.com reported. He was released when Oregon officials decided not to extradite him. Sources: Metro UK, Time.com, ABC news   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  