Reporter < Andisa Liba will form part of the Trek4Mandela team that will summit Mount Kilimanjaro, in an effort to raise awareness and funds for the keep the #girlchild in school initiative.Photo:BY XAVIER Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories IN celebration of the Mandela Centenary and as a build-up to Mandela Day, Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism (NMBT) will be in full support of Andisa Liba, who will form part of the Trek4Mandela team that will summit Mount Kilimanjaro in an effort to raise awareness and funds for the keep the #girlchild in school initiative. Liba (34) has nominated two local schools in New Brighton township as the recipients of the donations and support she will raise through participating in the campaign. The annual expedition to attempt the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro on Mandela Day is to create awareness about the challenges faced by young girls during their monthly cycles and how it affects their education when they miss valuable school days as a result. The climb is used to raise much-needed funds to purchase sanitary towels to help approximately 500 000 young girls from impoverished backgrounds to stay in school. Born and bred in the Bay, Liba, a cultural engineer by trade, is an avid hiking enthusiast and nature lover, as well as a firm believer in the value of education and the well-being of young boys and girls. Her efforts will offer support to the girls of Kama Primary School and Molefe Secondary in New Brighton. “If my involvement can aid in keeping just one young girl in school, then I’ve done my bit. “I truly believe that if we can do small things with big love, we can make a huge difference. This programme is a beacon of hope for a brighter future for these young women,” she shared. The total cost to support one girl is R30 per month or R360 per year. The cost per year covers 12 packs of sanitary towels and a Caring4Girls booklet, as well as packaging, transport and distribution to the schools and girls. NMBT will endeavour to support the long-term campaign and Liba’s initiatives to raise awareness and support to improve the lives of young girls in South Africa and Nelson Mandela Bay. Commenting on the importance of Mandela’s Centenary and the initiative, NMBT CEO Mandlakazi Skefile said, “Madiba was a great supporter and admirer of the potential of our youth. As a city named after the great icon, we believe it is our duty to carry his legacy through action. “We are proud to stand behind Andisa and the Trek4Mandela team as they embark on this exciting journey in support of keeping our girls in school.” An SMS donation line has been created for the public to donate to the initiative. Donators also stand a chance to win a two-night stay at Praixa de Peixe on the tropical island of Macaneta in Mozambique. Simply SMS ANDISA to 42513. All proceeds go to Caring for Girls, an Imbumba Foundation initiative. The competition closes on July 20 and the winner will be announced on August 1. In addition, NMBT has availed various donation boxes at visitor information offices around NMB as drop-off points for sanitary towels. These include the ones at the Port Elizabeth Airport, Donkin Reserve, The Boardwalk, Uitenhage and the NMBT Head Office. Andisa’s trek can be followed on social media @sibusisovilane on Twitter and @sibueverest on Facebook and Instagram. Viewers can also catch updates with Leanne Manas on Morning Live. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  