Weekly Reporter Mikyle Reddy (second from left) with the other winners and an official at the USC Region 5 Championships in Gabarone, Botswana.PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories LOCAL karateka Mikyle Reddy has been working hard to reach the level of success he has achieved thus far in 2018. Mikyle (16), who is a pupil at George Campbell School of Technology, has been actively involved in karate for the past 10 years under the instruction of Sensei Sherwin Hooblal of the SKKSA Stanger Dojo. Mikyle has won numerous provincial and national championships in the past and 2018 has seen him reach greater heights. It all began at the regional championships held in February, where he secured a podium position and then moved on to the KZN All Styles Provincial Championships where he exuded great fighting skill and once again achieved a podium finish. He then participated in the Karate South Africa All Styles National Championships, where he experienced a difficulty due to a shoulder injury. However, together with the focus and motivation he received from his fellow karateka and instructor, he was back on the tatami competition floor in May where he was placed third at the Tempe Military Base in Bloemfontein, which played host to the Karate All Styles League       event. He achieved a silver in the boys 16/17 years under 76 kg division. He then represented Karate South Africa as one of the six top-ranked athletes in his division at the Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg, where he formed part of an elite team to participate in the prestigious Arnold Classic Africa Sports Festival which hosted over 50 sporting codes under its banner. After a powerful display of skill and speed, Mikyle secured a silver. Exciting news arrived when he was ranked among the top six fighters in South Africa and was selected to participate in the AUSC Region 5 Championships in Gabarone, Botswana. This selection secured his place in the KSA Protea Team 2018. After a spectacular display of Kumite, Mikyle won the silver medal for SA, which was a great achievement. This championship brought a wealth of experience to him as he shared the podium with other countries and made new friends along the way, a true show of sportsmanship. Mikyle would like to thank his family, friends, well-wishers and especially his parents and sensei for their support, and he looks forward to upcoming tournaments in 2018. For more information on karate enrolments, contact Sensei Sherwin at 073 178 5775 or skksastg@yahoo.com 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  