Jeanette Chabalala ATM. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Six people were arrested following an attempted ATM robbery in Dobsonville, Soweto, during which a security guard was wounded, Gauteng police said. Brigadier Vish Naidoo told News24 that security guards came under attack on Thursday afternoon when they were loading money into an ATM. Explosives were used during the attack and when money flew out following the explosion, residents took advantage and grabbed some of it, he said. Of the six arrested, two had ink on their hands and three had ink on their clothes. It is unclear if all the people arrested were part of the robbery or civilians who decided to help themselves to the loot, he said. READ: Suspect shot dead after attempted cash-in-transit heist in Boksburg Naidoo said officers arrived at the scene before the robbers had had a chance to grab the money and escape. "The speedy police reaction comes from the stabilisation operation that has been running from 4 June. "The security guards are really putting up a fight and putting their lives on the line to protect this fundamental asset of our country. Their (cash-in-transit robbers) days are over. We have adopted an absolute zero-tolerance to them. We can't be going on like this." Earlier on Thursday, one suspect was shot dead and a security guard wounded following an attempted cash-in-transit heist in Boksburg, on the East Rand. The incident occurred on Atlas Road, near the N12 and no money was taken. "A group of armed men attacked a security vehicle and there were shots fired between them and the security. One suspect was shot dead and a security guard was wounded in the hand. There is also a report of two civilians that had been injured, but it is not confirmed as yet," Naidoo said earlier. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  