Mahlohonolo Magadla Tom Monyane (PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The mother of Tom Moyane’s alleged assault victim is distraught following the National Prosecution Authority’s (NPA) decision not to prosecute the suspended SARS commissioner. Moyane is accused of assaulting his son’s 17-year-old girlfriend, who is also the mother of his grandchild. It is alleged that he kicked her in the face and "rugby-tackled" her during an argument at his Johannesburg home in May. He reportedly also accused the teenager of witchcraft and destroying his ‘empire’. Speaking to DRUM, the teenager’s mother said that she does not know how to tell her daughter the news when she comes back from school. Read more: I can't face my daughter if justice was to fail us - mom of woman Tom Moyane allegedly assaulted “I am just so speechless. I have just received the news and I haven’t told her yet. I’m even scared and not sure how to approach her with this, she has just been elected as a prefect at school and now I have to tell her this and ruin her excitement,” the emotional mother said. “I’ve just sent her a WhatsApp message incase people at her school talk about it, I told her that there is news about Moyane  of which is not in her favour as a victim.  I also told her to just be strong because everyone will face the music one day and that she should come home so we can pray about this.” Although NPA spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane told News24  that prosecutors could see no prospects of a successful prosecution and decided not to pursue the charges, the 17-year-old’s mother says she believes her daughter and is not prepared to give up. “I’m going to take this matter to Afriforum. Sometimes we blame people for taking the law into their own hands, forgetting that they are human beings with emotions. Tom Moyane is not more powerful than God and I will not stop fighting,” she said. “I am not after his money. I just want closure. How is she going to trust her fellow humans now since the people she was hoping would help her are dismissing the allegations just because he is Moyane?” The emotional mother also said that she is prepared to do anything to bring justice for her daughter." If it means I have to do nasty and crazy things for my children’s justice I will because I know how it feels to be abused. I was married for 10 years and was abused in front of my kids, therefore I will not allow anyone to abuse my kids in front of my eyes,” she sobbed. “She is just a child. If it means I should die fighting this then let it be.” According to News24 medical reports from Helen Joseph Hospital dated May 15, showed that the teen had a bruised jaw, a cut to the inside of her cheek and a bruised abdomen. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  