Kaveel Singh and Iavan Pijooos (File, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu has condemned the placing of "bomb-like devices" in public places following several incidents in Durban in recent days. "We condemn in the strongest possible terms the placing of bomb like devices in public places whose only intention can be to plant fear and insecurity among the citizens of KwaZulu-Natal," he said. Police were called out yet again to the Pavilion Shopping mall on Monday when a suspicious device was found just after 10:00. Police tape was used to cordon off the underground parking lot, which is adjacent to the food court, while the police's bomb squad and police dogs were on the scene. The mall has since been deemed safe with the device identified as a security tag. "It was just a security device that people went crazy about. It was the tag that is attached to clothing items," police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said. The specialized bomb unit quickly dispersed shortly after as other police and mall security allowed shoppers to enter the area. Mchunu called for calm and assured citizens in the province that government would "do everything to get to the bottom of these incidents". "We call for calm during this time and request that government is given the space to conduct the necessary investigations into this matter," he said. "We have placed high priority on these incidents, working with our provincial police and together with all relevant agencies to get to the bottom of this matter." This is the second time that police have been called out to The Pavillion. On Saturday, a suspicious device was found in a Woolworths store at the Gateway Mall, also in Durban, and earlier in the week, similar devices were found at the same retail chain – one in Gateway and one at The Pavilion. The device found on Saturday, which appeared to be a cellphone attached to a pipe, did not explode. Meanwhile, on Sunday, two explosive devices under two separate vehicles, were found in the Berea area of Durban, KwaZulu-Natal police said. Pavillion mall spokesperson Nicole Gounded said, "Given the sensitivity around the current situation at Woolworths, we can neither confirm nor deny details at this stage." Naidoo said that police were investigating all the incidents. "These incidents are being investigated. These are improvised devices that are not explosive."     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  