Mxolisi Mngadi Police are hunting a man accused of child rape. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A cash-in-transit vehicle has been bombed in a daring heist between Msinga and Greytown in KwaZulu-Natal on Wednesday afternoon, police said. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo told News24 that the vehicle was travelling from Msinga to Greytown at about 15:30 when it was attacked by unknown men. The security guards had collected cash from the Msinga Mall, he said. "While at KwaKopi between Msinga and Greytown, their vehicle was attacked by an unknown number of occupants travelling in two vehicles. They shot at the security vehicle causing the driver to lose control," he said. Naidoo said the suspects used explosives to gain entry into the vehicle. ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak said paramedics got to the scene shortly after the incident on Wednesday along with other emergency services and found the vehicle overturned and severely damaged in a veld along the R33. "Three security guards were found with minor injuries," he said. Three security guards injured in cash-in-transit heist along the R33 outside Greytown, KwaZulu Natal. https://t.co/Y6XTVFVCbp #ArriveAlive #CIT @ER24EMS pic.twitter.com/KXdpborMKM  — Arrive Alive (@_ArriveAlive) July 11, 2018 "It is believed they sustained their injuries when the vehicle overturned. One of the security guards explained that they managed to get out of the vehicle shortly after it came to a standstill. "They were not injured by the explosives," Vermaak said. He said the three security guards were transported by ER24 to a hospital in Pietermaritzburg for further medical care.  "They fled with an undisclosed amount of cash," said Naidoo. READ: Couple allegedly linked to Boksburg heist appear in court, girlfriend released 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  