Jana van der Merwe Dennis Casten and Natasha Mans.  (Photo: Facebook/Natasha Mans) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The autopsy of murdered Natasha Mans from Bloemfontein shows she was killed by a single gunshot wound to the chest. The report also shows numerous bruises all over her body. The cause of 41-year-old Natasha’s death was confirmed to YOU today by Colonel Thandi Mbambo, provincial police spokesperson, after weeks of enquiries. Natasha’s body was found on 13 June on the smallholding in Casten Road in Groenvlei, Bloemfontein, where she’d lived with her boyfriend, businessman and developer Dennis Casten (48). Natasha had been missing for about two weeks before Casten allegedly came across her body under a thorn tree in the enclosure where she kept her springboks. He’d previously told police she’d “disappeared” with the ashes of her murdered daughter, Noeline Koekemoer (15), and his .357 revolver. Police had immediately suspected foul play since Natasha’s body was icy cold and hadn’t started decomposing at all. It was later established she hadn’t been shot with the gun that was found with her body. Noeline’s ashes were also allegedly never taken – they were later found in Dennis’ home. Mbambo confirmed the autopsy reports shows there was an exit wound at the back of her body. Natasha also had injuries under her arm and there was blood in her chest. Mbambo also said no arrests have been made but the investigation continues. Natasha’s daughter, Noeline, was raped and murdered on 7 April 2016 in their home in nearby Bainsvlei. Natasha, a mom of three who’d been working as head of cleaning services in the local Mimosa Mall at the time, had found the body of her eldest when she returned home from work that afternoon. Casten had supported her through the aftermath of the tragedy. Their friendship led to romance and Natasha had moved in with him. Moses Maoka (36), a former gardener on the smallholding where Natasha and Noeline had rented a cottage, was convicted of the rape and murder and in December 2016 he was handed down two life sentences. Friends and family of Natasha’s had told YOU that though the murder of her daughter was traumatic, Natasha had managed to process the trauma and had been “very happy” before she died.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  