Jan Bornman Tshwane Executive Mayor, Solly Msimanga. (Samson Ratswana) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories SBV Services has also appealed to members of the public with information on this attack or any other cash-in-transit crimes to notify the authorities. WATCH The City of Tshwane has promised residents of Hammanskraal that there are several immediate actions being taken to address the issue of water quality after residents protested for two days earlier this week. Mayor Solly Msimanga met with residents of Hammanskraal, north of Pretoria, on Friday and promised that his administration would prioritise filling 33 key technical positions at the Rooiwal water plant. READ: City of Tshwane will meet with Hammanskraal residents following violent unrest "Part of the malfunctioning at the plant is due to criminality and vandalism, and to address this we have deployed an additional 20 guards to safeguard the facility from cable theft and sabotage," he said. Msimanga further promised a new modern fence would be installed to improve security. He said City officials would undertake an inspection tour at the Rooiwal and Temba facilities next week Thursday. Msimanga thanked the Hammanskraal Community Forum for promising to work as "additional ears and eyes in the protection" of the City’s infrastructure. "The affordability of water which included concerns about billing errors, demands for immediate re-connections and a flat rate for utilities were attentively considered by my team," he said. "The starting point, before any final and lasting solution can be agreed upon, is to ensure that all customers are correctly captured on the system and are being correctly billed." While all of this is being done, Msimanga promised that additional water trucks would be procured while the City looks at addressing other problems at the various plants. "It is important to note that some of our most dire challenges are historical in nature and solutions will not always be immediate but we will put in relief measures where required," Msimanga said. "We thank the representatives of the HCF for their constructive engagement and it shows the concern that they have for the well-being of their residents. We look forward to a better Hammanskraal." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  