James Brent-Styan Image: Steinhoff: Inside SA’s Biggest Corporate Crash (Lapa Publishers). Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A small protest has been staged outside the Cape Town International Convention Centre, where Steinhoff's annual general meeting was live streamed. Watch.WATCH Steve Booysen, head of the Steinhoff Group’s audit
committee, received the news he feared most at 09:45 on Monday 4 December 2017.
It came in the form of an SMS from Markus Jooste, Steinhoff’s CEO. Booysen
would later explain to parliament that he suspected something was wrong as
early as September 2017. The text message confirmed his greatest fear: there was
indeed something wrong with Steinhoff ’s books. At best, it was accounting irregularities;
at worst, it was fraud. Booysen, formerly Absa’s group chief executive, was a
member of Steinhoff ’s supervisory board. He and the audit committee had met
with the auditors that day to finalise the statements. They called Jooste to
come and explain. Surely there was a good explanation for the suspicious
transactions and strange accounting entries? Surely Jooste could provide
answers? But Jooste never arrived. Over the course of the day he sent
text messages to Booysen. It is not known what exactly was in the messages, but
it confirmed that the nightmare was real and that there was no way out. The
bomb exploded. That evening at 19:45, a German lawyer went to the board
chairperson, Christo Wiese, and said that Jooste was tendering his resignation.
In later interviews Wiese said the resignation was totally unexpected. Jooste
also sent a letter to Steinhoff’s employees via email that evening. In the
letter, he acknowledged that he had made “big mistakes”. This is the complete letter, translated from Afrikaans: Hi there, Firstly I would like
to apologise for all the bad publicity I caused the Steinhoff company the last
couple of months. Now I have caused the company further damage by not being
able to finalise the year-end audited numbers. I made some big mistakes and have
now caused financial loss to many innocent people. It is time for me to move on
and accept the consequences of my behaviour like a man. Sorry that I have
disappointed all of you and I never meant to cause any of you any harm. Please
continue to live the Steinhoff dream and I must make it very clear that none of
Danie (Van der Merwe, COO), Ben (la Grange, CFO), Stehan (Grobler, executive
Group Treasury and Financing) and Mariza (Nel, Corporate Services, IT and HR)
had anything to do with any of my mistakes. I enjoyed working with
you and wish you all the best for the future, Best regards Markus He phoned Jooste the next morning, Tuesday 5 December, Wiese
said in a radio interview with Bruce Whitfield in April 2018: “I said whatever happened,
happened, but could he please come in and help the Steinhoff people to get the
accounts sorted out. He (Jooste) undertook to do so. But I was maybe naive.
Clearly, he got other legal advice. He did not show up and until today I have not
heard from him again.” Steinhoff essentially has two boards. The group follows the
Dutch corporate governance code, and has a supervisory board and an executive board.
As far as can be determined, Steinhoff is the only company in South Africa with
this unique structure. Professor Owen Skae, the director of Rhodes University’s
business school, says the idea is that the executive board must report to the supervisory
board, which in turn is accountable to the shareholders: “The two-tier structure is preferred in large parts of
Western Europe, but countries such as America, England and South Africa prefer
the single-board model.” The advantage of a single board is that all directors sit
together, with two or three executive directors directly involved in the
company’s operations. The rest of the board usually consists of non-executive directors,
of whom most are independent. “On such a single board the flow of information
is just better, and the executive directors who are involved in the company can
be questioned with the entire board present. It also means more rapid decision
making,” says Skae. The disadvantage of a single board is that the independence
of the board members is more easily compromised, which in turn weakens their
oversight role. However, the risk with a two-tier board system is the
possibility that the executive board does not report properly to the
supervisory board and in essence hijacks the company. By 2016, Steinhoff ’s
executive board consisted of three members: Markus Jooste (CEO), Ben la Grange
(CFO) and Danie van der Merwe (COO). None of the three served on the
supervisory board. In 2016, the members of the supervisory board were: Christo Wiese
(chairperson), Steve Booysen (head of the audit committee), Claas Daun, Thierry
Guibert, Len Konar (deputy chairperson), Bruno Steinhoff, Angela
Krüger-Steinhoff, Theunie Lategan, Heather Sonn, Johan van Zyl and Jacob Wiese
(Christo Wiese’s son). The board members each earn about €100 000 per annum
(about R1,4 million), with the chairperson receiving three times as much. “There were four board meetings per year, which usually
lasted about three hours,” said an informed source. Members also received additional
compensation for each board committee they served on. For example, the
chairperson of the remuneration committee earned an additional €30 000 (±R420
000) per annum. Monday 4 December was the date the final annual financial
statements of the Steinhoff Group for the 2017 financial year had to be signed
off by the auditors. Two days later, on Wednesday, the group’s annual results
had to be announced and distributed around the world. The financial notices had
been issued on SENS months before, and a listed company does not dare miss such
an important date. This would harm investor confidence. However, Steinhoff ’s
long-time auditors, Deloitte, were taking their time. In the past Deloitte had never
taken so long to finalise the statements. But, when the auditors didn’t receive
the information they asked for, they refused to sign off Steinhoff ’s
statements on the Monday. In terms of regulations, Steinhoff had to issue a SENS
statement to inform the market about the 2017 results and the associated
auditing process. In the statement, the supervisory board confirmed that the
group’s consolidated statements would be issued on 6 December 2017 as promised,
but as unaudited statements – essentially, statements prepared by Steinhoff ’s
own bookkeepers but not verified by an audit. The SENS statement continued: “With regard to the audit of
the statements for the year ended 30 September 2017, not yet completed their
review of certain matters and circumstances. These matters and circumstances
were raised by the criminal and tax investigations in Germany (as reported
previously).” Steinhoff said that no additional information had been
obtained to change the group’s existing views on the investigation: “The Company
expects to publish the audited 2017 consolidated financial statements before 31
January 2018.” But these pretty explanations really meant nothing . . . and
so the snowball began to roll. On Wednesday 6 December Steinhoff had to issue another SENS statement.
“New information has come to light today which relates to accounting
irregularities requiring further investigation,” Steinhoff’s supervisory board
announced. The board announced that it had, in conjunction with the
group’s auditors, approached another audit firm, PwC (Pricewaterhouse Coopers). “Markus Jooste, CEO of Steinhoff, has today tendered his resignation
with immediate effect and the board has accepted the resignation,” the
announcement continued. Wiese, chairman of the supervisory board, was appointed
as interim executive chairman of the group in order to “assist with managing
the group’s various retail interests around the world”. The supervisory board
sought to reassure shareholders that Steinhoff was still stable and profitable. The announcement sent shockwaves through the business
community, but the knockout blow was still to come. It came in the form of a
research report issued by a New York investor group just a few hours after the
news of Jooste’s resignation made the headlines. The group’s name is Viceroy
Research. Viceroy Viceroy Research is a small, anonymous investment firm
consisting of three men, who describe themselves as “protectors of
shareholders”. Viceroy became world-famous overnight with the release of a
damning report that revealed various irregularities in Steinhoff ’s financial
statements. The Viceroy report was issued on Wednesday 6 December, the same
day Steinhoff confirmed it was investigating accounting irregularities. The
37-page report detailed how and where Steinhoff apparently contravened the
rules. All that was known about Viceroy at that stage was that they had a basic
website created on the popular, low-cost WordPress platform, and that they were
based in the US. The report on Steinhoff spread fast. That week, the
Steinhoff share price dropped like mercury on a cold day. From R50,25 on Monday
4 December, the closing price fell to R45,65 (Tuesday), R17,61 (Wednesday),
R10,00 (Thursday) and hit R6,00 on Friday. There was wide speculation about the
identities of the individuals behind Viceroy Research. Observers surmised that
they were specialist short sellers who would make a lot of money if Steinhoff
’s share price crashed. Short sellers are speculators who pay to “borrow” shares
from shareholders. This is a risky practice and can either make such
speculators rich or ruin them financially if the price unexpectedly rises. Shorting,
a legal market practice, is also known as “bear speculation”. Simon Brown of Just One Lap says that dedicated short
sellers elsewhere in the world are often more aggressive than their South
African counterparts. It later emerged that Viceroy Research is a regular bear. On its website Viceroy describes itself as a group of
individuals which sees the world differently. Under the tab “Contact us” the group
states: “Questions, Information, Doomsday plans?” Under another tab is this bit
of trivia: “At the peak of tulip mania, in March 1637, some single tulip bulbs
sold for more than 10 times the annual income of a skilled craftsman.” The Viceroy report contained information that hit the
Steinhoff share price like a ton of bricks. Viceroy claimed there were three companies
that were used to do business with Steinhoff but did not appear on the group’s
balance sheet. The three companies were Campion, Southern View and Genesis. In
turn, these companies were controlled by existing and former Steinhoff
executives, including a previous group CFO. Viceroy maintained that most of Steinhoff ’s investments and
loans were “used to finance the companies to take over Steinhoff subsidiaries
that suffered losses”. According to Viceroy, these companies were therefore
used to obscure losses and inflate earnings. Viceroy initially remained anonymous
while the storm raged. In response to inquiries, the group told the Bloomberg news
service: “We believe the research should do the talking.” Viceroy described their work as “investigative research” and
said they use simple instruments such as Gmail and WordPress for their site
because Viceroy is not “a marketing machine. We are a small team of
professionals.” They acknowledged that their focus was to research companies
where “signs of accounting irregularities and possible fraud are found”. Steinhoff had not been on Viceroy’s radar at all until the
group decided to acquire Mattress Firm at $64 a share – more than double the
closing price on the day the deal was announced. Viceroy told Business Day that
it had essentially started looking into Steinhoff from “maybe mid-year (2017)”: “It was a bit like War and Peace. This was like a big novel,
there were a lot of names, there were related-party transactions, even down to
major transactions like Pepkor. There were many signs that something was
wrong.” After the publication of the Viceroy report, Steinhoff ’s
share price continued to fall and the rating agency Moody’s downgraded Steinhoff
’s credit rating to junk status. The Steinhoff collapse was not limited to
South Africa. The financial shockwave was felt around the globe. In America,
four of the largest American investment banks, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America,
Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, announced they jointly had more than $1 billion of
loans linked to Steinhoff. The embattled group owed a total of $22 billion to
international banks. Under increasing pressure, Fraser Perring, Viceroy’s leader,
eventually lifted his head above the parapet and agreed to an interview with
Bloomberg. Perring is a former social worker who started shorting stocks while
working as a child protection officer in Lincolnshire, England. At one stage,
he decided to change careers and started to speculate on the stock exchange on a
full-time basis. He made more money in his first three months as a full-time
investor than he had in 10 years as a social worker. Perring founded Viceroy Research with two colleagues,
Gabriel Bernarde and Aidan Lau, both Australians. The trio began collaborating in
2016 after Perring learned that the two Australians were researching the same
company. Viceroy Research announced that they were indeed short sellers. Viceroy initially considered Mattress Firm as a share to
short and was therefore shocked to see Steinhoff’s bid price: “Either the
market was undervaluing it by 100%, or Steinhoff was overpaying by 100%,” Perring
said in the Bloomberg interview. “And if it’s too good to be true, something is
up.” Steinhoff’s $64 a share for Mattress Firm was 115% more than the share
price the day before the takeover bid was announced. Just before Jooste’s resignation, Viceroy’s research report
on Steinhoff was close to completion and the firm shared its report on social media
a few hours after the resignation. A big question mark hangs over the actions of the investment
and financial community in South Africa. The industry consists of highly qualified
and specialised people who are paid generously to look after other people’s
money and pensions. How did so many of them completely miss the Steinhoff
signs? Steinhoff ’s collapse was a severe knock, especially for the pension funds
that had invested heavily in its shares. Wayne McCurrie, a senior asset manager at Ashburton
Investments, told CNBC Africa that the Steinhoff debacle is the biggest corporate
scandal in South Africa to date: “It’s the biggest one I know of, that’s for
sure. Regardless of what everyone is speculating about, all of us actually know
very little. The minimum facts are available to us. The only thing we are
totally sure of is that there were definitely accounting irregularities. It is
not alleged, it’s a fact.” Seeiso Matlanyane, an analyst at Prescient Investment, said Steinhoff
was a darling company, a top-40 share: “We saw it on the Springbok jersey.
Everyone assumed that nothing like this could ever happen to the system. If you
weren’t on the lookout for the worst possible scenario, which this is, it was
easy to overlook.” The golden thread that runs through many of the explanations
is the fact that Steinhoff’s books were so complex to analyse. Allied to this
was the steady rise in the group’s share price over many years. Perhaps it
would have helped if asset managers took heed of the counsel of Warren Buffett,
the “Sage of Omaha” and surely the world’s most famous investor. One of
Buffett’s rules for investing: never invest in something you don’t understand. Kieno Kammies, the energetic host of the breakfast programme
on CapeTalk in Cape Town, as always did not hold back and ripped into the
Steinhoff board and Jooste two days after Jooste’s resignation: “Read Steinhoff
’s code of conduct. What a joke! Listen to this: ‘The group must comply with
all of the legal obligations in each country in which it conducts its business.
The group also depends on the trust of its customers and other third parties
that must be safeguarded at all times by acting honestly and with integrity.’
This is bullshit on paper.” Kammies’ guest was Magda Wierzycka, the well-known CEO of
asset management group Sygnia. In 2017, Wierzycka emerged as a fearless
campaigner for justice by firing auditors KPMG because of their involvement
with the notorious Gupta family’s operations in South Africa. In an interview with
Hanlie Retief, published in Rapport in September 2017, Wierzycka is described
as “a hurricane striking an island.” On the KPMG debacle, she said: “I realised
with shock: damn it, my auditors are involved with the Guptas.” The morning after Jooste’s resignation, Wierzycka had this
to say about Steinhoff: “How does it affect you? Most asset managers held Steinhoff
as an investment in their portfolios. The largest investor was the Government
Employees Pension Fund (GEPF), whose assets are managed by the Public Investment
Corporation (PIC). This fund lost R14 billion.” Wierzycka described how she visited the Steinhoff website on
the day the bombshell hit and began analysing the figures: “I read a horror story
of a company that borrowed money at an incredible pace and acquired companies
all over the world in a frenzied manner. Anyone who knows how long it takes to
buy a single company and integrate it with an existing business, knows it
cannot be.” Wierzycka examined the group’s income statement and balance
sheet: “It boils down to the following: profits were obscured in order not to
pay tax. It appears that they grossly overstated their revenue line and created
fake earnings to lure investors into buying shares.” Wierzycka did not spare the financial industry: “This really
is a big scandal. The very first thing I was taught in the business world is:
remember, management lies. Be sceptical, be suspicious. Question everything.
Look at every number.” (Warren Buffett once said there are only two numbers in
a set of financial statements that you can trust: the dividend and the page
number.) Wierzycka continued: “Things had gone very wrong here (at Steinhoff).
If you were an analyst working for one of the large asset management companies,
surely one red flag after another should have popped up. And you should never
have gone anywhere near that company, and yet so many big asset managers did.
Did people invest in this company because the share price kept going up? Or was
it the charismatic leadership at the top?” Wierzycka asked. Then she lit into Wiese and the directors: “They knew. I
mean, they were on the board of directors. Directors look at financials every single
day. No acquisition decision would have been made without his sign-off. We are
talking about a company that took on a tremendous amount of debt. We have only
scratched the surface. If you are a majority shareholder or a very large shareholder
in the company, you are on the board of directors and you are involved in all
the decisions that are made. I do not for a moment think he (Wiese) was unaware
of the strategy of the company and what they were trying to do.” That evening, Bruce Whitfield reminded his Money Show
listeners about his interview with Wiese a few months earlier. He also pointed
out the enormity of the crash: “It was a chaotic day for a company in which
there were decades of friendships. Three-quarters of the value, more than R180
billion, was wiped out. In August, a small story was published in a German
magazine. Wiese very much denied everything then.” On 7 December Steinhoff issued the following SENS statement:
“The supervisory board has today given further consideration to the issues
subject to the investigation and to the validity and recoverability of certain
non-South African assets of the company which amount to circa €6 billion.” The simple explanation? The board discovered that there was
a hole of about R95,4 billion in Steinhoff’s books. That is R95,4 thousand million
rand, about a sixteenth of the South African government’s annual budget. On Monday, 4 December 2017, the share price was R50,25. Five
days later, it stood at R6,00.40 The collapse of Steinhoff was in full swing. - This is an excerpt from the book, Steinhoff: Inside SA’s Biggest Corporate Crash (Lapa Publishers), by James Brent-Styan available nationwide.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  