Michelle Nortje Colwin Setzkorn, Melani Cilliers, Marie Snyman and Matthew Baartman. (Photo: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Four diving enthusiasts died in a gruesome head-on collision with a truck on Sunday. They were on their way home to Johannesburg after a scuba-diving weekend in Mozambique. Colwin Setzkorn, 52, Melani Cilliers, 27, Marie Snyman, 37, and Matthew Baartman, 30, died when the car they were driving in collided with a truck about 10km south of Pongola in KwaZulu-Natal. Setzkorn was the owner of Scubaversity in Roodepoort. Snyman and Baartman were also members of the popular diving club. "As I understand it, the 18-wheeler truck’s tyres were worn," Annie Brown, a senior partner in Scubaversity, told YOU on Tuesday. "Two of the tyres burst and the truck collided head-on with the car. They died on impact. We were a family. It’s terrible what happened," she said. Setzkorn and his partner of 25 years, Mandy Zietsman, were co-owners of Scubaversity. "Colwin was always passionate about people who loved scuba-diving," Annie said. "He also loved his Great Dane, Marley – the dog was his constant companion." Melani Cilliers and Marie Snyman were engaged and planned to get married in October. "Marie asked Melani to get married in the French Alps earlier this year," Annie said. "They were very much in love." She described Cilliers as "a ray of sunlight in the office and the diving club", while Snyman was described as a "nature lover with a loving, caring personality".  She said the fourth person in the car, Matthew Baartman, was a "deep, sincere person" and an "excellent diving instructor". The members and remaining partners of the diving club believe it’s important to carry on the business. Matthew Baartman and Colwin Setzkorn. (Photo: Supplied) "We’re determined to continue their legacy – that’s why everything will go on as usual," Annie said. An officer at the Pongola police station confirmed the accident but wasn’t been able to comment officially. Melani Cilliers and Marie Snyman. (Photo: Supplied) 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  