Alex Mitchley Media personality Shashi Naidoo. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Local celebrity and model Shashi Naidoo will be going on a fact-finding tour of the Palestinian territories, following public backlash about comments she made on social media. Watch.WATCH The South African Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD) has suggested that Shashi Naidoo did not follow the proper channels after she was denied entry into Palestine by Israel. SAJBD chairperson Shaun Zagnoev said it was unfortunate that Naidoo had chosen to visit Israel and the Palestinian territories through the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement of South Africa. The BDS confirmed in a statement on Wednesday that Naidoo, who is a well-known South African model, had been blocked from entering Palestinian through Israel. The model announced in June that she would visit both Israel and Palestine on a fact-finding tour after she received backlash over social media posts in which she expressed pro-Israel views, calling Gaza a "shithole". WATCH: Shashi Naidoo apologises, announces trip to Palestine "We hope that Ms Naidoo will renounce BDS, and soon return to Israel and Palestine through the proper channels in order to learn more about the complexities of that conflict, and the real suffering experienced by both Israelis and Palestinians due to the lack of a viable peace process," the SAJBD's Zagnoev said. He added that the BDS was based on the premise that Israel should be boycotted until it ceases to exist as a Jewish state. "Many of the campaigns the organisation initiates in South Africa have resulted in blatant antisemitic incidents," he said. The BDS said Israeli authorities who control access to Palestine had blocked Naidoo on the orders of Israel's Interior Minister Aryeh Deri and the recommendation of Israel's Public Security Minister Gilad Erdan. The movement called the denial of entry into Palestine repressive behaviour, likening it to how Israel treats Palestinians who are subjected to similar but worse forms of restriction and denial of many other freedoms. "Israel is yet again exposing its lie that it is open to 'objective' visitors. Israel only allows its own praise-singers. This is a clear indication of Israel's refusal to allow freedom of movement, expression and association." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  