Kaveel Singh The bullet-riddled taxi following the attack. (Screengrab) (Sthembiso Mngoma) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Eleven people died after a minibus taxi was ambushed on the R74 in KwaZulu-Natal - an incident police believe to be related to taxi violence. WATCH.WATCH Police have made a breakthrough, following this weekend's KwaZulu-Natal taxi shooting in Colenso and one man who is linked to the matter has appeared in the Durban Magistrate's Court. Twelve people affiliated to the Ivory Park taxi association died in the attack on Saturday. The 35-year-old man made his first appearance before Magistrate Mahomed Motala on Wednesday. Following a request from prosecutor Calvin Govender, Motala ruled that he could not be named while sensitive investigations continued. The man has been charged with alleged illegal possession of 73 rounds of AK-47 ammunition. He was arrested on Tuesday. He is expected to appear in court again on August 1. National Police Commissioner General Khehla Sitole condemned the killings on Sunday and said he had implemented a 72-hour action plan to trace and arrest those responsible for the shooting. Sitole announced that various specialised police units, including Crime Intelligence, the Hawks, detectives, the Special Task Force and other officials would take part in the investigation. The acting provincial commissioner of KZN, Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi, and his management team would oversee the investigation into the murders. The minibus taxi in question was travelling from a funeral at Ematimatolo back to Johannesburg on Saturday night, along the R74 road between Colenso and Weenen, when it was ambushed by a group of gunmen. Meanwhile, the Gauteng Legislature Portfolio Committee on Roads and Transport on Wednesday convened an urgent meeting with taxi associations and affected stakeholders in the ongoing taxi violence in the province. The outcome of the meeting – which is being held behind closed doors – is expected to be announced later today.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  