Hlengiwe Nhlabathi And S' Thembile Cele The DA flag is waving. (Nelius Rademan, Gallo Images, Foto24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Senior DA leaders are plotting to form a breakaway "true
liberal party" which they hope will contest next year's general elections. Angry about the direction the party is taking under the
leadership of Mmusi Maimane, the senior leaders have been holding consultations
and are said to be keen on getting Western Cape Premier Helen Zille to head the
new force. City Press is aware of at least five senior and prominent
MPs who are said to be involved in this new initiative. The move comes in the
wake of serious tensions over race, transformation and other policy positions. While Maimane and his core leadership want to broaden the DA's
appeal by making it responsive to transformation and economic inequality, some
party ideologues believe this stance is forcing the DA to divert from the
traditional liberalism for which it has stood. Threat to coalition dreams The war in the DA, and now the threat of a split, is
jeopardising the party's stated objective of increasing its support to such an
extent that it can force coalition governments in various provinces. The internecine strife comes as President Cyril Ramaphosa's
popularity is making the ANC an attractive option for supporters who had become
disillusioned with the governing party during former president Jacob Zuma's
tenure. Independent research company Ipsos says the DA is currently
polling at about 20% nationally. This is down from the 22.2% that the DA
garnered in the 2014 general elections, which was itself a big jump from the
16.7% it got in 2009. 'Recruit high-calibre people' City Press can reveal that senior leaders have approached
the SA Institute of Race Relations for advice on how to go about the dramatic
move. Frans Cronje, the institute's chief executive, has confirmed
three meetings which have already taken place with "like-minded people",
including liberal formations sympathetic to the cause. Cronje advised the group that in order to make a strong
impression, the new party would have to recruit "high-calibre"
individuals from the liberal space. Cronje would not be drawn into revealing who the big names
were or which DA members were involved. "Liberalism has never had mass appeal in South Africa,
but a lot of its ideas are sensible [when it comes to] the market economy and
the like. "The party, therefore, must not be run as a traditional
political party in the sense of rallies and mass campaigns. It should rather
seek to attract a small number of high-calibre individuals who would be able to
bring their own constituencies into the party. "That was my advice. Central to that advice is that if
the party does not have a big name who is popular in that community, I think it
is very unlikely that it is going to succeed," Cronje said. Zille's role In June, Zille confirmed that she had been approached to
form her own political party, but said that she declined the offer. She
revealed this after she was forced to step down from all decision-making
structures in the party, following a row over a series of tweets in which she
endorsed aspects of colonialism. "That party is materialising and Helen is aware of it,
because she has been approached to lead it," said an insider close to the
process. For the past two weeks, City Press has made numerous attempts
to get hold of Zille and her media team. All attempts have been ignored. The De Lille factor A senior leader confirmed that he had been approached to
join the new party and that there was great unhappiness among some in the
party. "There is a group of hardcore DA leaders who feel that
the DA is no longer truly liberal – and something is being done about it,"
he said, referring to the new party. "At the rate the DA is going, it is
highly possible that we will wake up in 2019 and see this party contest. A lot
of people are really unhappy. "There are many factors that will make us lose votes:
this liberal party matter; and you also have some people, black, who will cross
floors to the ANC or the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) because of the manner
in which the party has handled the Patricia de Lille matter. Let's face it,
what wrong did Patricia do? There is yet to be clear evidence." Last week, the former Eastern Cape premier under the ANC,
Nosimo Balindlela, who had crossed the floor to the DA, announced that she was
leaving to go back to the ANC. Provincial DA heavyweight Veliswa Mvenya also announced her
departure from the party last week. Van Damme defends Maimane DA MP Phumzile van Damme said this week that she and other
leaders were aware of talk circulating about plans to start a new party, but
added that these were nothing new as such talk happened with every election
season. "It never, ever takes off and I don't think they would
do well. "We haven't heard any definitive announcements of a true
liberal party being started," Van Damme said. She defended claims that the party had abandoned its
ideological stance, saying that it was a liberal broad church and had always
been so. Van Damme also came to the defence of Maimane, saying he had
a mammoth task of bringing South Africans together. "He is working extremely hard. It is difficult in South
Africa to bring races together," she said. "The ANC and EFF don't have to do that. They are black
parties; you can come in as a white person but you are a guest, whereas with us
we are bringing together very different people from different races. It is not
easy. "People disagreed on the DA's white privilege [tweets]
and the Ashwin Willemse thing [referring to a tweet in which the DA leader said
Willemse's experience was common for many South Africans]. They said Mmusi
jumped the gun without having all the facts. "But what Mmusi was saying is that he gets what being
undermined in the work space is like – and, regardless of what the facts were,
that core feeling is something that I identified with, that a lot of black
people identified with," she said. "People don't understand what it means to be black, so
we're having those conversations. It is not a group kumbaya session. It is an
effort to try to understand each other. "I understand from a lot of white people that they feel
alienated and not understood, like they don't belong – and that is a
conversation we need to have because they can't go back to the UK or the
Netherlands. This is their home. They need to feel like they belong here. That
is the project that the DA is engaged in," Van Damme said. DA's 'identity crisis' Former party leader Tony Leon denied talk in political
circles that he had been approached, saying that he was in no rush to rejoin
the political arena. He also described the idea of the new party as mere
speculation. Leon said the DA was, however, facing an identity crisis of
sorts which stemmed from the party's growth spurt. "I think there is a corner of South Africa that
consists of true believers of different ideologies, and obviously as parties
get bigger, they tend to lose their ideological core. "It gets diffused because you are trying to attract a
bigger audience. As you grow, you have to expand and as you expand, you tend to
sometimes soft peddle on some issues – not because you don't believe in them,
but because you are trying to reach a bigger audience," Leon said, echoing
a similar sentiment to that of Cronje. "What is fundamental for the party is for people to
say: 'This is our core offer beyond Zuma and corruption. Here is what we stand
for and this is what we are'. I think it is in the DA's ecosystem somewhere,
but I am not sure it has been front and centre in the last few years." Cronje expressed similar sentiments: "The first thing
that needs to happen is, the DA needs to decide what it is. At the moment, the
state of the DA is such that it's turning in circles. One day it's one thing
and the next day it's another thing, and no one can actually understand where
it stands. "I won't say the DA is not a liberal party at this
point. I'd say it is confused at this point. It doesn't know what it wants to
be and where it wants to go, and I think that's causing it some harm." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  