Christina Pitt (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A nine-month-old baby is in the care of her father after it was discovered that she was sexually abused. According to reports, the baby's aunt discovered injuries on her genitals after the baby's mother left her in the care of her father. The aunt informed the father that something was wrong, and they immediately reported it to the police where a criminal docket was registered at the Delft police station in Cape Town. "A medical examination was done and old healed bruises were recorded on the victim," police spokesperson Captain FC Van Wyk said. "The injuries are established to be more than a month old. We are unable to determine who the suspect is at this stage. The child is currently in the safe care of the biological father who stays in Sea Point," he said. The matter was under investigation by the Cape Town Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit. Government has condemned the sexual abuse. Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) acting director general Phumla Williams said the cycle of abuse needed to be broken. "It’s appalling that we see a prevalence of gruesome inhumane acts against our children. As we prepare to close National Child Protection Week, society needs to realise the harm that adults are inflicting on children and resolve to break the cycle of abuse and neglect," Williams said. "We need to educate the boy child on the issue of women rights; we need to speak out against abuse and make our voices heard; and we need to ensure that our children feel safe." Williams said that children’s rights were of paramount importance. "It’s imperative for parents and the public at large to safeguard the children's well-being by protecting them from any harm and danger. The rights of the child has to be realised by the adult," she said. "Even though government has made the fight against child abuse a priority- we cannot overcome this scourge on our own. Families, neighbours and communities have vital roles to play. Let us as a nation not be rendered defeated in protecting the children of South Africa."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  