Kaveel Singh Bongani Mbhele, 38, stands accused of attempted murder. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A "most wanted" KwaZulu-Natal man, allegedly linked to a host of Glebelands Hostel murders, made his first appearance in court on Wednesday. Bongani Mbhele, 38, stands accused of attempted murder, but more charges are likely to be added to his rap sheet. READ: KZN police arrest 'most wanted' Glebelands Hostel murder suspect He was held in custody after appearing at the Umlazi Magistrate's Court. Mbhele was arrested on Monday in Harding, on the south coast of KwaZulu-Natal. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said Mbhele had been charged with an attempted murder case where Fezeka Njiyelo, 29, was shot and wounded in 2016 at the Glebelands Hostel. He added that Mbhele would likely be charged with two counts of murder, in connection with the killing of two Glebelands Hostel residents at Montclair in 2015. Zwane said William Mthembu and Thokozani Machi were allegedly shot dead by Mbhele on September 12, 2015, as they were leaving a supermarket in Montclair, Durban. Mbhele allegedly fled the scene in a getaway vehicle after the shooting. "A murder docket was opened at the Montclair police station. It was immediately established that the victims were from the Glebelands Hostel and that their murder was linked to the tensions in the hostel at that time, and the detective task team immediately took over the investigation," he said. Six of the seven men, who are linked to several Glebelands Hostel murders, were denied bail by the Durban Magistrate's Court on April 26. Some of the other charges they face include racketeering, conspiracy to commit murder, extortion and unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. Police officer Detective Sergeant Bhekukwazi Louis Mdweshu, Ncomekile "Matlala" Ntshangase, Khayelihle "Mroza" Mbuthuma, Eugene Wonderboy Hlophe, Mbuyiselwa "Mahliphiza" Mkhize, Vukani Mcobothi and Mondli Talente Mthethwa are due to appear again in court on May 31. Mthethwa has abandoned his bail application. On April 3, the Durban Regional Court sentenced Mbuthuma to life imprisonment for the "contract-style" killing of Sibongile Princess Mtshali, 52, who was shot dead in her room at the hostel on July 26 last year. More than 100 people have been killed because of the violence over the allocation of beds and rooms at the hostel. During the Moerane Commission into political killings in the province, the hostel was described as a "reservoir" of hitmen. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  