Alex Mitchley Magistrates court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The case of a man who allegedly raped his domestic worker and forced her to perform sexual acts on his dogs has been transferred back to the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate's Court. Two weeks ago, the case was transferred to the Pretoria Regional Court because of safety concerns. However, chief prosecutor Matric Lupondo asked the Pretoria Regional Court on Thursday to send the case back after consultations with members of the Bronkhorstspruit community and security at the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate's Court. Lupondo said members of the community and the complainant approached the State and said that they would not be able to offer support to the complainant if the matter remained on the Pretoria Regional Court roll. The accused, aged 45, who cannot be named, said that he did not have any objection because his support system was also in Bronkhorstspruit. On Thursday, following the testimony of court security officials, public order policing and the EFF in Bronkhorstspruit, the application for the transfer of the case was granted. The court found that the public, the accused and court personnel would be safe if the case continued in Bronkhorstspruit. At a previous court appearance, the State confirmed that all investigations had been completed and that the dogs' DNA results had been finalised. READ: Dog DNA analysis completed in domestic worker rape case The results of the DNA analysis are pivotal to the State's case. It is alleged the accused forced the victim to perform oral sex on his dogs and to have sex with the animals. Magistrate David Shikwambane dismissed the accused's bail application in March. He said that the accused was unsuccessful in proving that it was in the interests of justice for him to be released on bail. During the bail application, the court heard that the accused's DNA had been found in the victim's vagina and that the victim's genitals were bruised. She also had an open wound on her right thigh. The court heard that the victim was an employee of the accused's parents and that, during the day on October 23, 2017, the accused had refused to allow her to leave the premises and "kept her in his room where he raped her at different times". Captain Shane van Rooyen, who testified on behalf of the investigating officer, said the victim only managed to escape in the early hours of the morning on October 24. "The victim used something to spray the accused's person and [she] escaped wearing only a towel." Among the charges are five counts of rape, three of sexual assault and one of kidnapping. The matter has been postponed to May 29. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  