Nelson Chamisa (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Zimbabwean Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Alliance leader Nelson Chamisa has reportedly
vowed to expel Chinese investors if he wins the up coming elections. Chamisa claimed that the Chinese were "involved in shady deals
with the Emmerson Mnangagwa administration". According to NewsZimbabwe.com, Chamisa said this while addressing hundreds of people who gathered for the Workers Day celebrations organised by the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade
Unions in Dzivarasekwa, Harare on Tuesday. Chamisa said that most of the deals Mnangagwa agreed with Chinese companies
were about corruption, looting and stripping of country’s assets. "We will kick out the Chinese companies," He was quoted as saying. "We want genuine deals that benefit the people. These deals are not country,
but individual deals and the new dispensation is busy exporting lies that they
are a new dispensation." The state-owned Herald newspapers, said on Wednesday that  Zimbabwe and China had signed several deals
running into billions of dollars spanning from energy, roads and general
infrastructure development. The report said that the Chinese had assisted the country in various
projects that included the extension of the Kariba South Hydro Power Station
which added 300MW to the national grid. Zimbabwe adopted the so-called "Look East policy" when former president
Robert Mugabe fell out with the West. The policy saw China becoming the country’s
major investor. Mnangagwa’s new administration has continued with the policy, with the
president claiming to have reached deals worth billions of dollars with Beijing
following the ouster of Mugabe in November, NewZimbabwe.com said. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox:  SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  