Investigation into fake money dealing to pounce on more culprits, continues by the Directo­rate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) in the Free State. This follows the discovery of counterfeit money of R200 000 which were discovered during the arrest of five suspects on Monday, 30 April, in Bloemfontein’s CBD. The suspects include three males and two females. According to preliminary findings, they are believed to originate from Welkom. They are Mofolo Jan Miya (40), Joseph Seliwe (35), Mathew Seliwe (46), Pulane Elizabeth Buti (30) and Dimpho Gadu (29). The five are currently out on bail of R1 500 each, granted after their successful application. They were granted bail on their first appearance in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday (02/05). Capt. S’fiso Nyakane, Hawks spokesperson, said the suspects face three charges – the possession of counterfeit money, money launde­ring and the contravention of the South African Reserve Bank Section 32 regulations. He said there were no conditions to bail and the suspects are expec­ted to reappear in court on 8 June. The police reacted promptly upon receiving reliable information to pounce on the five suspects. They were caught off guard in the city’s CBD near the train station before exchanging the money. According to the preliminary investigation, the suspects had planned to exchange the fake money at one of the well-known banks in the city. The fake money was reportedly packed neatly in shoe boxes in the Chevrolet Avio in which the five suspects were travelling. Nyakane said the vehicle, initially confiscated, has been released. The arrest of the five brings the number to eight suspects arrested in connection with the dealing of fake money since January. In January, the police arrested Nthabiseng Betty Mokhali (49) in Bloemfontein for the possession of counterfeit money of more than R1 million, and Ethiopian Abushh Wangore (42) in Thaba Nchu for the possession of fake money of R77 800. In February, a Dealesville-based traffic officer, Johannes November (43), was arrested after he was found in possession of fake money of R2 200. November had the case against him provisionally withdrawn for investigation, while that of Wangore is pending. Mokhali walked away scot-free after her case was dismissed in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court due to a blunder by the police. The Hawks failure to apply section 251(a) when they set an entrapment to arrest her, was given as the main reason for the dismissal of the case by the senior prosecutor.