Omega Moagi Dineo Ncungama (13) is still missing.PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories LOCAL police are appealing to the community to be cautious with their children amid recent incidents of kidnapping in the lower South Coast area. Margate SAPS spokesperson Captain Gerald Mfeka said that in most cases kidnappings involved someone that was known to the family and urged parents to remain alert. Mfeka said that the Margate police were currently investigating a myriad of cases of this nature. Last Thursday a 21-year-old man was arrested for the assault and kidnapping of a pupil from the Ezinqoleni area. It is alleged that the pupil was on her way to the school in the accompany of other pupils when they met a man who is known to her. The man then slapped her on the cheek before dragging her through the sugar cane field to his residence. Mfeka said that the matter was reported to the police by the school that the pupils attended by the other pupils that were present during the ordeal. “Police and community members searched and the victim was found together with the suspect 21-year-old male unharmed. He was arrested for kidnapping and he will appear at Ezinqoleni Magistrate Court on Monday,” said Mfeka. In a separate incident a 13-year-old girl Dineo Ncungana is still missing after allegedly being kidnapped at the Gcilima area near Margate two weeks ago. According to police, Dineo was last seen before an altercation that ensued between her and another man who is known to her mother. “It is alleged that the 42-year-old suspect who is known to the victims’ mother, took the child’s cellphone after an argument. On arriving later, the mother could not find the child anywhere and reported the matter to Margate SAPS for investigation,” said Mfeka. If anyone has information regarding her whereabouts contact the investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Zolile Sibisi at 082 339 8634/082 686 3082 or Crime Stop at 086 001 0111. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  