Derrick Spies, Correspondent (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An armed robbery at a Sasol petrol station in Port Elizabeth resulted in a high-speed chase and subsequent shootout between police and suspects, leaving one robber dead and a police officer and bystander injured. Police spokesperson Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said the incident occurred at a Sasol garage in Linton Grange on Wednesday morning. A group of men robbed security guards as they were leaving with money they had just collected. She said two men had entered the store when the guard went into the office to collect the money. A third man had entered as the guard came out of the office. The men then overpowered the guard and fled with the cash and the guard's firearm. Janse van Rensburg said the men had then been joined by two additional men, who had been standing on lookout outside, and had fled the scene in a white Toyota Quantum. A description of the vehicle was then broadcast, and it was spotted travelling down Bramlin Street, towards Malabar, by a member of the K9 unit, who gave chase. "The men realised they were being followed and accelerated and began shooting... [at] the police vehicle in pursuit," she said. Janse van Rensburg said the men had continued travelling into Algoa Park, where another police vehicle joined the pursuit. She said, at one stage, along Ditchling Street in Algoa Park, the Quantum had slowed down, and three of the suspects had jumped out. "The police officers in pursuit also got out of their vehicles, and a shootout ensued." Janse van Rensburg said that, during the shootout, one of the suspects had been fatally injured and a second was taken into custody. She said the third man, as well as the two men in the vehicle, had managed to escape. "During the shooting, one of the police officers was shot in the knee, and a truck driver was shot in the buttocks," she said. She said a massive manhunt was still underway for the remaining suspects. Police were investigating a case of attempted murder and armed robbery.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  