Mxolisi Mngadi In his original Facebook post the man said he wished the pair could have resolved their issues through talking about them but it was too late because the woman was gone. (Facebook screen grab) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) and the DA in the eThekwini region in Durban want the justice system to deal harshly with perpetrators of violence against women following the murder of a 21-year-old student on Tuesday night. The woman has been identified as Zolile Khumalo, a Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) quantity surveying student and is believed to be the ex-girlfriend of the suspected killer. Khumalo's body was found on Wednesday morning with multiple gunshot wounds at university residence Lonsdale in South Beach, Durban. A 23-year-old man apparently confessed to the crime on Facebook. The ANCYL said it was shocked and angered by Khumalo's brutal killing. "The killing of such a young lady at the hands of her ex-boyfriend must provide to authorities the clearest of signs that the current legal system continues to place young women at risk. We call upon the criminal justice system to use this case to set an example, to mete out the swiftest and harshest punishment possible in order to ensure that such incidents do not happen again," ANCYL regional spokesperson Thulisa Ndlela said. He said the youth league believed it was time for society to instigate a review of the current criminal justice system. "The rate of violence against young women in particular has reached alarming levels," Ndlela said. DA eThekwini councillor Nomfundo Khubone said it was sad that on the eve of the guilty verdict of Sandile Mantsoe – who brutally murdered his girlfriend Karabo Mokoena – the country was yet again faced with the murder of a young woman who had her whole life ahead of her. "We are calling on the justice system to deal harshly with individuals who continue to massacre women in this country. We will continue to seek justice for Khumalo and other defenceless women," said Khubone. Suspect signed in by another student She said the DA called on MUT management to urgently tighten security in and around its residences. The university expressed its sadness at Khumalo's passing. "It is reported that Zolile was shot and killed by an ex-student of the University yesterday," it said in a Facebook post. It said the accused was signed into Khumalo's residence by another registered student. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said a 23-year-old man, who was found at the scene, surrendered to the police. An unlicensed firearm and ammunition were recovered at the scene, Zwane said. Zwane said the man is expected to appear at the Durban Magistrate's Court on Thursday or Friday on charges of murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. He said at this stage the incident was suspected to have been part of a domestic dispute. The South African National Civic Organisation said it believed that a harsh sentence against Mantsoe would serve as a deterrent for perpetrators of gender-based violence. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  