Mnangagwa risks losing Zim polls: adviser Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa risks losing the support of war veterans and could lose elections scheduled for later this year, a top adviser says. War veteran and special adviser to the president, Christopher Mutsvangwa was speaking after he and several other officials, including cabinet ministers, lost the right to represent Zanu-PF in parliamentary polls due in July. "It is inconceivable that the president will win given that the party's members have been largely disenfranchised," Mutsvangwa said, in comments carried by the private NewsDay. Read more on this story here 'Cannabis not for recreational purposes,' govt warns Zimbabweans The Zimbabwean government has reportedly warned its citizens not to use cannabis for recreational purposes after it recently legalised its production specifically for medicinal and industrial purposes. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, the country's ministry of health maintained that the use of cannabis for recreational purposes remained a criminal offence. Zimbabwe became the second African country last week to legalise the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes and research. For more on this story click here 'Let's continue with reconciliation efforts,' says Moz leader after Dhlakama's death Afonso Dhlakama, the Mozambican opposition leader who led a rebel group during the devastating civil war that ended in 1992, died on Thursday at the age of 65. Mozambican radio reported that Dhlakama died in the Gorongosa area of central Sofala province, where he was based amid sporadic violence involving the Renamo opposition group and security forces backed by the ruling Frelimo party in recent years. However, tensions eased in the southern African country in 2017 as Dhlakama met President Filipe Nyusi in Gorongosa to discuss differences between the two sides. Read more on this story here PICS: Zimbabwe's Mnangagwa launches election campaign Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Friday called for his ruling Zanu-PF party to "humbly" appeal for votes as he launched his campaign ahead of elections expected in July. The election will be the first without Robert Mugabe in power since the country won independence from Britain in 1980. Mnangagwa took over in November 2017 after Mugabe, now 94, was forced out of office when the military briefly took over. Read more on this story here After shock primaries, Zimbabwe elections will be 'nail-biting': Report Elections due soon in Zimbabwe will be "nail-biting" now that a number of top allies of President Emmerson Mnangagwa have lost the right to contest parliamentary seats, the Daily News is reporting. Cabinet ministers Chris Mushohwe, Abednico Ncube and Mike Bimha lost in primary polls held this week, as did several sitting Zanu-PF MPs. Among those to lose in the primary polls was Mnangagwa's special adviser, Chris Mutsvangwa, who also chairs the influential war veterans' association. The Daily News said Mutsvanga was Mnangagwa's "most fearless backer". Read more on this story here Botswana's new president Masisi sacks director of intelligence Botswana's new president, Mokgweetsi Masisi, has fired his director of intelligence and security services, colonel Isaac Seabelo Kgosi. The permanent Secretary to the President, Carter N Morupisi, confirmed in a press statement this week that Kgosi had been relieved of his duties. For more on this story click here 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  