Alex Mitchley Stephan Nel, Dicky Junior van Rooyen, Marius Harding, Ockert Muller and Joshua Liam Scholtz stand accused of assaulting a couple in a KFC drive-through. (Deaan Vivier, Gallo Images, Beeld) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The case against five men accused of assaulting a couple last year at a KFC drive-through in Montana, Pretoria, has been postponed as the defence is waiting to get access to a cellphone belonging to one of the accused. Marius Harding, DJ van Rooyen, Stephan Nel, Joshua Schultz and Ockert Muller appeared in the Pretoria North Magistrate's Court on Thursday morning where the court heard that most of the disclosure of evidence had been complete. READ MORE: KFC attack accused allegedly assaulted, robbed in prison Prosecutor advocate Lucri Shivambo said all the CCTV footage of the alleged assault had been handed over to the defence teams, but that information from a cellphone was still outstanding. Last year, the court heard allegations from Harding, the only co-accused in the case still in custody, that he had been the victim of multiple assaults and theft at Kgosi Mampuru II prison. "He has been assaulted on various occasions, his stuff has been stolen and the individuals at the institution do not want to assist him to lay charges or assist him with [a] transfer request," Harding's attorney Nols Nolte told the court. 2014 charges of crimen injuria Harding is the only accused who is not out on bail. Van Rooyen, Nel and Schultz, who were initially denied bail by Magistrate Mothloki Rapulana, had the decision overturned in October last year. North Gauteng High Court acting judge Andre Petersen overturned the lower court's decision and granted them bail of R5 000 each. Muller was granted bail in August. READ MORE: Police investigation of KFC assault accused still ongoing News24 previously revealed that Harding was arrested in 2014 on charges of assault and crimen injuria for allegedly assaulting three petrol pump attendants and making racial slurs at a garage in Petrus Steyn, Free State. Harding is also facing a charge of fraud in a separate case in KwaZulu-Natal. All five accused in the matter have been charged with attempted murder, assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and pointing of a firearm. The case was postponed to June 28.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  