Poor service at the Khayelitsha District Hospital came under the spotlight at a meeting between hospital management and the Treatment Action Campaign(TAC) this week. TAC members recounted complaints about staff shortages and bad treatment of patients, issues which had not been resolved in spite of several meetings with management. Amelia Mfiki said as TAC members were leaving after a meeting last week where they had been told that “everything is good”, a member of the public came up to them and complained that a family member who was a patient at the hospital had been wearing the same adult diaper for 24 hours. Staff had not responded to requests to change the diaper. TAC member Phumeza Runeyi said when her brother was stabbed and brought to the hospital, no staff members could be found on duty to help them, not even the matron. Addressing hospital CEO Anwar Kharwa, Mfiki said TAC was tired of bringing complaints to the hospital without anything being done. “The hospital board is representing the community, but we’ve never heard anything from them. We do not know if the board is engaging with management. We do not know if they know what is happening in the hospital. Who is the board representing?” Since 14 May 2013, when the TAC first submitted a list of 30 testimonials from patients regarding the hospital, there has been little change, TAC representatives say. Complaints then included long waiting periods in the emergency department, a shortage of beds, poor treatment by hospital staff and insufficient doctors. Since then the TAC has had several meetings with hospital management. Hospital board member Zolile Feni acknowledged at the meeting that board members had not been “hands on” enough. Kharwa also acknowledged the problems the hospital was facing, but said TAC also had to take note of social issues in the community. “I understand your frustration and we are also frustrated by the high prevalence of violence and injuries. What we’ve noticed in Khayelitsha is that 50% of patients that enter our doors, require life-saving help.” GROUND-UP 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  