Gys Visser PHOTO: Instagram/@dmcw1998 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories When a shark bit Dylan McWilliams last Thursday he set a record few would envy him. According to New York Post, this 20-year-old from Colorado in the USA has also been bitten by a bear and a snake in the past few years. He sustained deep lacerations to his leg when a tiger shark bit him as he surfed on a body board in Hawaii. "I saw the shark underneath me. I started kicking at it – I know I hit it at least once – and swam to shore as quickly as I could," he told the BBC. "The scariest part was swimming back," he told Hawaii News Now. "There was blood behind me. I didn't know where it was.” He received seven stitches to his leg. Dylan was also attacked by a bear when he camped in Colorado a year ago. A black bear, weighing about 140kg, got into the camp in the early hours of the morning and grabbed hold of his head. He told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser he could hear his skull cracking. According to News.com, luckily he managed to escape on this occasion – and needed just 9 stitches for his wounds. While hiking in the mountains in Utah three and a half years ago, Dylan was bitten by a rattle snake. Fortunately the snake released very little venom and he was ill for only a few days. “I’m either really lucky or really unlucky,” he quipped to Honolulu Star-Advertiser. A post shared by Dylan McWilliams (@dmcw1998) on Oct 14, 2017 at 2:07pm PDT  According to National Geographic, the chance of these things happening to the same person is 1 in 893,35 billion. Dylan loves the outdoors and often works as a guide on survival trips. He’s been travelling through America and Canada in the past year. A post shared by Dylan McWilliams (@dmcw1998) on Dec 19, 2017 at 5:11pm PST  “My parents are grateful I’m still alive,” he told the Honolulu StarAdvertiser. Sources: New York Post, Honolulu Star-Advertiser, Hawaii News Now, BBC, News.com, National Geographic  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  