Afonso Dhlakama (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Accompanied by a military gun salute, Mozambique laid
to rest rebel supremo and opposition leader Afonso Dhlakama in his remote birth
village on Thursday after his unexpected death threw the country's peace
process into uncertainty. Thousands
of mourners attended the funeral in the country's central Sofala province, a
heartland of support for the Renamo group that he led for nearly 40 years. Dhlakama,
who died of a suspected heart attack last week aged 65, was buried in a private
family cemetery in the village of Magunde. During
his decades as leader, Renamo evolved from rebels fighting in the bloody
1977-1992 Civil War to an opposition party with lawmakers in parliament while
also maintaining an armed guerrilla force. After
a renewed bout of unrest, Dhlakama declared a truce in 2016 and had recently
pursued peace talks with President Filipe Nyusi, leader of the ruling Frelimo
party. "We
are burying the body, but we are not burying the ideas," his brother Elias
Dhlakama said after the casket was lowered into the ground. Some
people perched on trees to watch the burial in the place Dhlakama was born on
New Year's Day 1953. "We're
here not only to honour our father but also to thank him," said Dhlakama's
niece Teresa Marceta. Hundreds
of vehicles took mourners to the family homestead where mud and reed huts have
no electricity and water supplies. Backed
by apartheid South Africa, Renamo launched a bitter war against the
Soviet-backed Frelimo government and fought for control of its strongholds in
the north and centre of the country. Dhlakama
later then transformed Renamo into a political party, which has participated in
elections since the first multi-party democratic vote in October 1994. He
later retreated to his wartime bush camp in central Mozambique's Gorongosa Mountains,
claiming the government had reneged on a 1992 peace agreement. Renamo
appointed former party deputy Ossufo Momade as its interim leader until the
party's next congress. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE
TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  