Mxolisi Mngadi (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Fifty-one
people died on Gauteng roads over the past long weekend, the provincial
department of Community Safety revealed on Tuesday. The department revealed that
preliminary statistics in the province from Thursday
April 26 to Monday April 30, "painted a very worrying picture". Twenty-two pedestrians, 11
drivers, 15 passengers 2 motorcyclists as
well as one cyclist died in 41 fatal crashes that
have occurred during the long weekend. During that period, the province
recorded 41 fatal crashes as well as 51 fatalities broken down into 22
pedestrians, 11 drivers, 15 passengers, 2 motorcyclists
as well as 1 cyclist. Community Safety MEC Sizakele
Nkosi-Malobane expressed disappointment
at the growing rate of road fatalities in the province. "It is of great concern that
some unwarranted behaviours continued
unabated and this has been widely demonstrated by the rate of fatalities during
this long weekend. We have noticed that many accidents were caused by over
speeding, driving under the influence of alcohol and driving unroadworthy
vehicle, amongst others," she said. Nkosi-Malobane said theGauteng government, they will continue to
implement programmes and initiatives that are aimed at reducing road crashes
"as these rob the country of the skills and talent essential in building a
flourishing nation". She said some of the programmes
include Road Safety Education focusing on pedestrian awareness, driver’s
safety, safer vehicles and alcohol
awareness. "I would like to express my
heartfelt condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones and wish those who are injured a speedy recovery.
We wish to further caution those who are driving to various destinations in the
province to continue to observe the rules of the road to avoid further
unnecessary fatalities," she said. Law enforcement agencies arrested
252 drunk drivers in Johannesburg during the long weekend, with Soweto topping
the list with a recorded 53 arrests, the department revealed.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  