Magazine Features Gemma Mccusker, Karlie Toland and Kyle Toland. ( Photo: CATERS/WWW.MAGAZINEFEATURES.CO.ZA) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A tot who was given just minutes to live after being born
with her brain outside her skull has made an astounding recovery. Karlie Toland, now 17 months old, is thought to be the only
person in the world to be alive with her rare medical condition. After being born with part of her brain outside of her
skull – also known as an encephalocele – doctors predicted Karlie would die
within minutes of being born. But her parents, Gemma Mccusker (24) and Kyle Toland (20),
from Belfast, UK, refused to give up on their daughter. "After giving birth I was told my daughter would die
within 20 minutes,” Gemma says. "I was heartbroken and although she had part of her
brain outside of her skull, she looked perfect.” Doctors sent the tot home to die, but four weeks later
Karlie was still clinging to life. The little girl’s parents claim
they were offered no medical help until they visited Belfast’s Royal
Hospital for Sick Children. It was only then that they were reportedly offered a
life-changing operation for their daughter to repair the brain tissue poking
through her forehead. "After being discharged from hospital we went home
with Karlie and used bottles of sterile water at room temperature and cotton
swabs to wipe away the brain fluid leaking from her skull,” Gemma says. "We had been told Karlie would die in the next few
days but she defied everyone and once we got a second opinion four weeks later,
she had the operation she desperately needed.” The surgery took just under five hours and Karlie has come
on in leaps and bounds since. The tot now constantly laughs, smiles, talks and even eats
on her own.  The overjoyed parents are confident she’ll go on to take
her first steps in the next few months. "Looking at her now makes me so proud, she's always
smiling, laughing and happy, and she’s such a little miracle." "We've been told by doctors that Karlie is a miracle
to be alive and she really is. "We couldn't believe it and although no one expected
her to progress as her brain doesn't have the normal three structures, so far
she’s on par with other children her age.” Gemma and Kyle believe the only reason their daughter is
alive today is thanks to the work of Dr
Mano Shanmuganathan, a neurosurgeon at Belfast's Royal Hospital for Sick
Children. "We’re so thankful to Dr
Mano and that he never gave up on our daughter,” Gemma says. "His surgery saved her life and has given us a future
with Karlie. "We don't know what the future holds for Karlie but
we’re sure she will continue to defy the odds." Source: Magazine Features 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  