Patricia de Lille takes centre stage in the Western Cape High Court as she takes on the DA, City of Cape Town and Electoral Commission of South Africa over her mayorship.       Jump to
                    bottom WATCH: 'We didn't pay them' - DA Western Cape leader The leader of the Democratic Alliance in the Western Cape Bonginkosi Madikizela says the party did not pay members money to gather outside court for the Patricia De Lille matter. Judge Gamble now probing the need for urgency, and says he does not see the motivation in the applicant's papers. Counsel now arguing for urgency. #DA #DeLille @TeamNews24 Judges Samela and Gamble have arrived. Counsel introduces themselves. Adv Dali Mpofu for #DeLille and Adv Sean Rosenberg for the #DA. @TeamNews24 Patricia #DeLille takes her seat in court ahead of her urgent application asking the court to temporarily suspend the #DA's decision to remove her from the party, pending a full court review. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/w8izA1TIg7 Patricia #DeLille supporters chant back at the #DA supporters outside the Western Cape High Court. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/HFtPdYf3f4 Patricia #DeLille has some of her own supporters outside the Western Cape High Court too. #DA @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/CCAzvYSTSK Party supporters and #DA officials chant "on your marks, get set, we are ready to fire #DeLille" ahead of the urgent matter in the Western Cape High Court today. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/OZYVRcShYk #DA supporters chanting for the party ahead of the urgent #DeLille matter in court today. They are ushered and supported by party officials. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Zq3mZnSB42 #DA supporters chanting in support of the party ahead of the urgent #DeLille matter to be heard in the Western Cape High Court today. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/WLO0q56JGV DA staff, constituencies and councillors were also instructed to fill taxis with people that do not like me and pay for their food and R50 stipend per protestor. Disgusting! I’ve received phone calls from concerned and emotional DA activists that they were instructed to protest against me at the high court tomorrow from 7am. Patricia de Lille gets her day in court Patricia de Lille is expected to take centre stage in the Western Cape High Court on Friday when she takes on the DA, City of Cape Town and Electoral Commission of South Africa over her mayorship. DA federal council chairperson James Selfe and his deputy Natasha Mazzone said at a briefing on Tuesday that it was a public declaration which De Lille had made during an interview with Radio 702 host Eusebius McKaiser on April 26, that stripped her of her membership of the party. They based this on a clause in the party's constitution, which states that, if a member publicly declares his or her intention to resign, that person's membership ceases immediately. Earlier, News24 reported that De Lille rejected an offer by the DA to keep the permanent position of mayor and her seat in the council vacant for the next three months, until the merits for her removal had been argued in court. It's DA v De Lille: The end of the affair? (Don't bet on it) It's been a whirlwind few days for those following the Patricia de Lille saga.The Democratic Alliance (DA) and the former/current/possibly returning Cape Town mayor head to the High Court on Friday for some much-needed clarity on her messy ousting from the party on Tuesday. To be fair, the writing's been on the wall for some time for De Lille. We all knew this day was coming. But the DA's use of a party clause in her removal not mentioned before this past week, its "cessation clause", has made things a little more interesting. DA's unfair process forced me to seek relief from the courts, says Patricia de Lille Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille says the Democratic Alliance has forced her to seek relief from the courts. This after the party confirmed the cessation of her membership of the DA on Tuesday morning, after charging the embattled mayor with misconduct earlier this year. The DA cited clause 3.5.1.2 in its constitution, which says if a member publicly declares his or her intention to resign, then their membership ceases immediately. De Lille reportedly said during a radio interview on April 26 that she would "walk away from the party" once she had cleared her name, as the "the writing's on the wall" that people didn't want her to be there. DA kicks De Lille out of party The Democratic Alliance has confirmed the cessation of Cape Town Mayor Patricia De Lille's membership from the party. James Selfe, chairperson of the DA's federal executive, made the announcement at a media briefing in Cape Town on Tuesday. The DA charged De Lille with misconduct earlier this year, following various claims. The embattled mayor survived a motion of no confidence in her in February, but in an internal motion of no confidence against her in April, the party voted to recall her as mayor. Jump to
                top