Earl Haupt @EarlHaupt Photo: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  A blaze on a Metrorail train in Ottery claimed the life of a
commuter this morning (Wednesday). Four other people were injured in the incident – a woman
sustained third degree burns while three other women sustained minor injuries. A City of Cape Town official says arson is suspected to be
the cause of the fire but investigations are underway. A preliminary report from Metrorail confirms that a fire on
board a Cape Town-bound train at Ottery Station was reported at 08:48. The City
of Cape Town’s Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson, Theo Layne confirms this. “At 09:02 on 30 May the City’s Fire and Rescue Service responded to a train
fire just before Ottery Railway Station. Two train carriages were destroyed in
the blaze,” he says, adding that the person who was killed in the blaze has yet
to be identified. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott says that according to
preliminary feedback from the scene train crew uncoupled the burning carriages
from rest of the train to contain the damage. She adds that commuters on board
were evacuated at Ottery station and that services on the Cape Flats line have
been suspended until the scene is cleared and police investigations are
completed. Delays are expected to last between three and four hours. “Final mopping up operations will commence as soon as
forensic teams have completed their investigation. The damaged carriages will
be taken to the depot for further investigation and assessment by PRASA loss
adjusters. The cause of the fire and estimate of damage will be assessed during
post-incident investigations,” says Scott. Anyone with information or footage of the event is requested
to provide it to police. All reports will be investigated and treated in
strictest confidence. Rewards of up to R25 000 are payable for information
leading to successful convictions.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  