Phindile Shozi PHOTO: phindile shoziZondi pointing to the small pump that is currently being used. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories SIYAJABULA Centre, an orphanage in Molweni is appealing to the community to assist them in purchasing a bigger water pump, as the one they currently have is unable to pump water to the orphanage as they are based on a hilltop. The Project Manager of Siyajabula Centre, Mnqobi Zondi said that this situation has brought a lot of problems and not having running water impacts on the hygiene factor. “The pump that we currently have doesn’t have enough power and pressure to pump the water into the big tank because it’s up in the hill, so we need a bigger engineered pump, to pump the water easily to the house,” Zondi said. Zondi stressed that this is affecting the centre in many ways as they have 42 kids that they have to take care of each and everyday. “We have 42 kids who are staying at the centre and using buckets can be such a mission because you can only have so much water in a bucket. Hygiene is also a factor as we have toilets that needs to be flushed," he said. Zondi emphasised that manoeuvring around the house without running water is a huge challenge. “Everything revolves around water because we can’t even build an extra room for the children and attracting donors is also a problem as we are faced with the challenge of hygiene. "We have people who are willing to build us an extra room but the only hindrance is water, so if we can get a bigger pump we can get water every night, which will make our lives much easier,” said Zondi. Zondi pleaded to the community to assist them by donating a bigger water pump or towards purchasing a new one. “We are pleading with public to make the children's life much easier as they are forced to help us fetch the water with buckets and boil them before use,” said Zondi. To assist contact Zondi at 084 552 0995. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  