Kevin Anderson (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Judgment reserved in Patricia de Lille's urgent court bid, Victims of mosque attack relive their ordeal and what South African celebs looked like 10 years back.Here are today’s top stories: Judgment reserved in De Lille's urgent court bid The Western Cape High Court has reserved judgment in Patricia de Lille's
 urgent application to suspend the DA's decision to strip her of her 
membership. Bus strike not over yet - Numsa The bus strike is not over yet, National Union of Metalworkers of South 
Africa general secretary Irvin Jim said late on Friday afternoon. Verulam mosque attack: 'First they prayed, and then they wanted to kill' Speaking to the media on Friday, Nchiyane, along with other members of the Shia mosque, relived their ordeal. 5 possible Springbok hookers for June Tests With Malcolm Marx out injured, Springbok coach Rassie Erasmus must back someone else in the No 2 jersey for three Tests against England in June. From petrol attendant to Cape Town's new City manager New city manager Lungelo Mbandazayo had barely put his family portraits 
on his desk when, as then-acting city manager, scandal hit. PICS: 11 local celebs in 2008 vs 2018 We take a look at the most popular local celebs who have been in the 
entertainment industry for over a decade by kicking it back to 2008. Mother’s Day tips for divorced fathers On Mother’s Day, we have the opportunity for an annual show of honour 
and appreciation for mothers – not only your own mother, but also the 
mother of your children. Anderson makes history, reaches Madrid semis South African tennis star Kevin Anderson has made history by reaching the semi-finals of a Masters 1000 event for the first time. *Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  