Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 From left, back are Community Safety official Fagrodien Johnson, secretary Allison de Villiers, deputy secretary Rafieka Ganger, deputy chairperson Kaamilah Ismail, spokesperson Anthea van der Vent. Colonel Herman Seals and chairperson Byron de Villiers are seated. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Lentegeur police precinct has a fully functioning Community Policing Forum (CPF) following a second, and successful election last week. After postponing last month, due to a lack of quorum, the organisations were given another opportunity to register for the elections, which took place on Thursday last week (“CPF elections postponed again”, People’s Post, 1 May). The meeting took place at the police station boardroom and was chaired by station commander Colonel Herman Seals. “After more than two years of not having a functioning CPF at the station it was finally put to vote to elect a new executive. A number of organisations were present to proceed with the process,” says police spokesperson Constable Shaun Abrahams. The forum first became dysfunctional in 2016 with the resignation of several executive members. An attempt to revive the forum with the election of only certain positions resulted in a heated meeting between residents and officials and that caused the full disbanding of the body. Some of their concerns included lack of representation, no communication and the validity of a body that had only two active members (“CPF dead in the water”, People’s Post, 30 May). Elections were then set to take place after the month of Ramadaan last year, but were further postponed. Of the seven vacant positions, five were filled. As per the CPF constitution it was decided that the remaining two positions of treasurer and project co-ordinator would be co-opted to grant fair opportunity for sectors who were not represented. The elections were facilitated by Fagrodien Johnson, a representative from the Western Cape Deparment of Community Safety. At the meeting, Byron de Villiers was elected as chairperson, Kaamilah Ismail as deputy chairperson, Allison de Villiers as secretary, Rafieka Ganger as deputy secretary and Anthea van der Vent was elected as spokesperson. “The Lentegeur police management wishes the newly elected executive well in their task ahead and now furthermore to build a wholesome and efficient relationship with the community of Lentegeur,” Seals says. The executive members have hit the ground running, beginning the task with a walkabout alongside police and safety volunteers in Agapanthas Street on Saturday where a spate of shootings have taken place in recent weeks. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  