Magazine Features PHOTO: CATERS/WWW.MAGAZINEFEATURES.CO.ZA. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A young girl has to live in isolation due to a rare
condition that causes her skin to bleed when exposed to sunlight. Thirteen-year-old Vedika Gupta, from Indore in
India, is locally known as Snake Girl. She says she’s had to face a string of
problems at school as sunlight affects her skin. “I can’t go out in the sun,” Vedika says. “Whenever
I go outside I get a burning sensation in my skin. My skin peels off and, at
times, there’s bleeding. “All I can do is watch children my age play and
enjoy their life. I often ask myself why I’ve been subjected to this kind of
punishment by God. What sin have I committed to suffer like this?” Vedika suffers from ichthyosis, a family of genetic
skin disorders characterised by dry,
scaling skin that’s either thickened or very thin, according to the Foundation for
Ichthyosis and Related Skin Types. Because of the condition she’s been confined her to
her room and forced to lead a life of isolation. The teen spends her time studying, painting and
watching television because she doesn’t have friends in her neighbourhood. Her family has consulted several doctors but none
have been able to come up with a cure for her condition. Vedika resorts to
applying generic body lotion to keep her skin moist and stop it from flaking
off.  She’s not the only one in her family to suffer from
the disorder – her elder sister, Sunidhi, is also afflicted with ichthyosis. Sunidhi, who’s an introvert, doesn’t attend social
functions or other events to avoid questions about her appearance. But while Sunidhi’s lost hope, Vedika’s positive there’s
a light at the end of the tunnel. “Everyone’s treated me equally but, yes, when I
speak to some stranger I feel a little uncomfortable,” she says. “If there’s any treatment that can help to improve
my skin condition by 50% it’ll give my confidence a boost.”  Her parents are raising money in a desperate bid to
try to treat her condition. Source: Magazine Features 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  