PICS: Mozambique bids farewell to ex-rebel Renamo leader Mozambique's president and thousands of mourners who flocked to the port city of Beira on Wednesday paid final respects to Afonso Dhlakama, a former rebel supremo turned opposition leader who died last week. Draped with the national flag, the casket bearing the remains of Dhlakama, a towering figure in the country's political history, was carried into the square by military pallbearers wearing camouflage fatigues and white gloves. Dhlakama died of a suspected heart attack last Thursday at his hideout in the Gorongosa mountains in the centre of the country. The memorial service is being held about in Beira, capital of Dhlakama's home province of Sofala. For more on this story click here Mozambique leader eulogises rival, vows to stay on 'walk for peace' Mozambique's president set aside political differences to pay tribute to his arch-rival Afonso Dhlakama and pledged to continue the fragile peace talks he had been holding with the ex-rebel supremo turned opposition politician. President Filipe Nyusi joined thousands of mourners who flocked to the port city of Beira on Wednesday to pay their last respects to Dhlakama, a towering figure in the country's political history who died last week. "We're here to genuinely pay homage to the man who I've been talking to in recent days in search of lasting peace," said Nyusi in a eulogy at a memorial service for Dhlakama. Read more on this story here Zim: MDC leader Chamisa threatens 'national shutdown' Zimbabwean opposition leader, Nelson Chamisa, has reportedly threatened a "national shutdown" if his Movement for Democratic Change Alliance's demands for transparency and electoral reforms in the forthcoming watershed polls are not met. Speaking to his supporters in the  United Kingdom, Chamisa said that the MDC-T Alliance would not boycott this year's election but would mobilise its supporters to halt the vote, the privately owned NewsDay reported. He said his party had the capacity to block the forthcoming polls if President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government failed to implement the necessary electoral reforms. For more on this story click here MDC threatens to sue Zim electoral body – report Zimbabwean opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party led by Nelson Chamisa has reportedly threatened to file a court application against the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) for allegedly undermining the biometric voters' registration exercise. According to Newsday, the MDC's secretary general Douglas Mwonzora said that the party has found inconsistencies in the voters' registration procedure, adding that ZEC officials deliberately "slowed down the on-going exercise as part of a plot to disenfranchise mostly urban voters". Read more on this story here Buhari too 'unwell' to govern: Nigerian opposition Nigeria's main opposition party has said President Muhammadu Buhari is unfit to run the country after he again left for London on medical grounds. The 75-year-old former military ruler last year spent five months in London seeking treatment for an undisclosed illness that he said required multiple blood transfusions. He flew out again on Tuesday, citing a request from his doctor, and pledged to be back in Nigeria on Saturday. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  