Iavan Pijoos Employees at the Renault East Rand dealership got a little more than they bargained for at work when they ended up with front row seats to an explosive cash-in-transit heist. Watch.WATCH Claims have been made that one of the seven men arrested after a cash-in-transit heist in Boksburg is a police officer. A source within the police initially told News24 on Thursday evening that an officer was arrested. At the time, police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo could not confirm that information. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate's Moses Dlamini told News24 that they would not know until the matter was reported. "This is purely a police investigation. Most of the suspects are civilians," Dlamini said. However, national police spokesperson Vish Naidoo later told News24 that no officers were part of the five that were arrested. He did however confirm that several people have been brought in for questioning. WATCH: Bullets fly during cash-in-transit robbery in Boksburg The incident happened on Atlas road in Boksburg on Thursday morning. Masondo said at the time that the robbers travelled in three different cars. "They shot at the two G4S vans and then there was an exchange of fire between them and the security officers. Two security officers were shot in the process," Masondo said. One was shot in the leg and the other sustained minor injuries to the head.  He said the men were believed to have blown up the two vans before fleeing and taking an undisclosed amount of money with them. The scene was littered with debris and at least eight people were injured. A police helicopter was used to track down five of the men, who were then arrested. News24 understands that two more were arrested on Thursday night. Police also recovered two vehicles, a R4 rifle and some of the money.   *This story has been amended to reflect that police have denied that one of the five accused was a police officer. News24's information was provided by a source with firsthand knowledge of the incident. However police have stated categorically that no officers were part of the five that were initially arrested. Therefore we have highlighted the fact that this is only a claim, and not an established fact. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  