Jan Gerber Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Africa's Cabinet called on the Israeli Defence Force to withdraw from the Gaza strip and bring to an end "the violent and destructive" incursions into Palestinian territories. Presenting the outcomes of Wednesday's Cabinet meeting to the media on Thursday, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said: "Cabinet condemned in the strongest terms the acts of violent aggression carried out by Israeli armed forces along the Gaza border, which led to the deaths of a large number of civilians." This, after Israel's defence force killed more than 60 Palestinian civilians and injured thousands along the Israel-Gaza border. "Given the indiscriminate and grave manner of the latest Israeli attack, the South African government made a decision to recall Ambassador Sisa Ngombane until further notice," she said. She said Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu would brief Parliament at its next sitting on other considerations in relation to the issue. READ: SA pulls ambassador out of Israel over Gaza violence "Cabinet calls on the Israeli Defence Force to withdraw from the Gaza strip and bring to an end the violent and destructive incursions into Palestinian territories," Mokonyane said. "Their routine actions present yet another obstacle to a permanent resolution to the conflict, which must come in the form of two states, Palestine and Israel, existing side-by-side and in peace." She said Cabinet reiterated calls made by several member states of the United Nations for an independent inquiry into the killings, with a view to holding those responsible accountable. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  