Jan Bornman Hospital. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) has conducted a site visit at Tembisa Provincial Tertiary Hospital, north of Johannesburg, following allegations of poor treatment of patients, staff shortages and concerns around the state of infrastructure. The commission's Gauteng provincial manager Buang Jones said it initiated the investigation following allegations in the media that the hospital's services were substandard and that conditions were poor. Last year, News24 reported that an employee was injured when the ceiling collapsed in the labour ward. This was one of several incidents involving infrastructure at Gauteng hospitals last year. Hospital CEO Dr Lekopane Mogaladi acknowledged that the hospital "faced a number of issues". "We are a very, very transparent management… Ours is a job that entails life and death and, if we were to conceal any information of any matter, we might actually have debilitating outcomes," he said. "Our biggest responsibility is to put systems in places to ensure that the betterment of the lives of our people are realised." Mogaladi added that the two biggest challenges the hospital faced were critical staff shortages and infrastructure issues. He said the hospital did not have the ideal number of staff per ward and per patient, but said staff were doing the best they could. Further, he said that the hospital didn't have the capacity to deal with the number of patients because of the size of the area the hospital serviced and the fact that there were no district or regional hospitals there. Mogaladi said hospital management were also concerned about the state and age of the CT scanners at the hospital. Jones said the commission would return for another site inspection in November. This visit comes after the commission held a hearing into the state of oncology in KwaZulu-Natal on Monday. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo and other members of his health department appeared before the commission over the ongoing crisis in the province. Dr Musa Gumede, the acting head of the KwaZulu-Natal health department told the commission: “We are making efforts and strides towards that direction. I can't say that we've got a Ferrari at the moment, but we've got a car that works and people can make use of it." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  