President Emmerson Mnangagwa. (Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Elections due soon in Zimbabwe will be "nail-biting" now
that a number of top allies of President Emmerson Mnangagwa have lost the right
to contest parliamentary seats, the Daily News is reporting. Cabinet ministers Chris Mushohwe, Abednico Ncube and Mike
Bimha lost in primary polls held this week, as did several sitting Zanu-PF MPs. Among those to lose in the primary polls was Mnangagwa's
special adviser, Chris Mutsvangwa, who also chairs the influential war
veterans' association. The Daily News said Mutsvanga was Mnangagwa's "most
fearless backer". Mnangagwa’s days numbered? Support of the veterans of the 1970s independence war is
seen as key to anyone wanting to hold onto leadership of Zanu-PF. The fall of party stalwarts in the primary polls is "a clear
and sturdy message to Mnangagwa that his own days are numbered and he should be
planning for his own succession, which his predecessor failed to do", political
analyst Maxwell Saungweme told the paper. Other commentators saw the developments in a positive light
– a sign that the ruling party is undergoing a process of renewal. University of Zimbabwe political science lecturer Eldred
Masunungure told the Daily News the fall of some officials may have been
engineered by Emmerson Mnangagwa himself. Desire for renewal "It's more complex than meets the eye – the desire for
renewal is also paramount," Masunungure said. "If (Mnangagwa) is
eager to renew the party, he might have engineered the fall of some bigwigs,"
he said. An editorial in the state-run Herald on Thursday said the
shock results of the primaries was "a sign of a vibrant party renewing itself". "It is a result that speaks of a resurgent party as
evidenced by the young men and women who vied to represent Zanu-PF in
Parliament," it added. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox:  SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  