Supra Mahumapelo 'is not going anywhere', a crowd of supporters of the North West premier were told outside the venue where an ANC PEC meeting was held to discuss Mahumapelo's fate. Jump to
                    bottom ICYMI:  Mahumapelo: "The law must not be selective, the rule of law must not be biased... that's why when we act, we must act in a manner that is not biased."  Mahumapelo makes claims of people being paid off with drugs.  Mahumapelo making a number of accusations while addressing his supporters.  Mahumapelo: "President Jacob Zuma is innocent, until proven guilty by a court of law... and all of us who are accused, comrades, we are innocent until proven guilty by a court of law."  Journalists now being harassed by Mahumapelo supporters.  Mahumapelo says they wanted to stop him from empowering the small dorpies and bringing Wi-Fi to villages in his province.  Mahumapelo implies he was "attacked" because he said a bigger percentage of the budget must go to small villages and townships. Says money is being taken away from North West province by Gauteng. "Gauteng is viewed as a rich province because of money taken out of the North West..."  Mahumapelo, seemingly addressing ANC leadership: "We must know who was paying for that disruption."  Mahumapelo says it's not the ANC that caused problems, but individuals in the party. He says he will take legal action against people making "spurious, unfounded, concocted allegations and one must be removed on those allegations".  RECAP: Supra Mahumapelo remains North West premier and provincial chair, following PEC meeting.  Mahumapelo is addressing his supporters outside the PEC meeting once again.  ICYMI: 'I won't resign until the PEC has met' - Mahumapelo Embattled North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo will not officially announce his decision to step down from his role as head of the province on Wednesday morning as expected. A message from his office told journalists that the briefing had been "postponed indefinitely". The advisory said this was due to new developments overnight. "The provincial leadership of the ANC has directed that I not resign until the PEC has met today," Mahumapelo told News24 on Wednesday morning. It's understood an emergency meeting had been called to discuss his decision. A member of the chief whip's office told News24 that no resignation had been received from Mahumapelo.  Supporters of #SupraMahumapelo queing for pap and steak outside the venue where ANC NW is deciding whether he stays or not #TheUTurn  @City_Press pic.twitter.com/pEp21yowj0 #Mahumapelo the premier's supporters now getting lunch, as they wait to hear from him  @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/aKdtvs62Fh #Mahumapelo a makeshift stage being set up at a braai stand, the premier will address his supporters after the PEC meeting @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/EWVX4r6ypW #Mahumapelo ANC members here saying a statement released by its PEC is fake news. Claim the provincial leadership has rejected Mahumapelo's resignation... But remember how I said the chief whips office said there was no resignation in the first place @TeamNews24 Doctors unable to enter Tshepong Hospital as protest action continues in North West Protesters have blocked healthcare workers from entering Tshepong Hospital in Klerksdorp as protests continue in the North West following the possible resignation of beleaguered Premier Supra Mahumapelo. According to recent tweets, the situation remains tense in the province as doctors and ambulances have not been allowed to access the hospital. News24 previously reported that protesters stormed the hospital last week and forced staff out.  ICYMI: Mahumapelo should still be held accountable 'for the collapse of the North West' - DA The Democratic Alliance in the North West has welcomed Supra Mahumapelo's resignation as premier on Tuesday night, but remained adamant he should still be held accountable "for the collapse of the North West". The ANC in the province announced "with a sense [of] apprehension - but great pride" that Mahumapelo had voluntarily vacated his position on Tuesday night amid growing calls for his removal. DA leader in the North West Joe McGluwa said: "The ANC and [President Cyril] Ramaphosa must hang their heads in shame for dragging their feet and accommodating Mahumapelo's arrogance, all while the province burned and people lost their lives. "Whoever the ANC deploys to serve as premier will continue where Mahumapelo left off - it will be more of the same," he said.  ICYMI: 'Packing my bags and going home from tomorrow,' says Supra Mahumapelo North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo has given his strongest indication yet that he will step down on Wednesday. This, after widespread violent protests occurred in the province in which residents called for him to step down as premier and as ANC chairperson in the province. News24 asked Mahumapelo on Tuesday evening if reports that he would be stepping down on Wednesday were true. He responded: "Packing my bags and going home from tomorrow." In an interview with the SABC, Mahumapelo told the public broadcaster that "by tomorrow (Wednesday) midday, Supra Obakeng Mahumapelo will be the former premier of the North West". ANC members in the North West are already celebrating, expecting the imminent departure.  The EFF's Floyd Shivambu weighs in.  This guy is refusing to fall softly, which is a precondition of falling hard. There’s no way he will survive this one• There’s no PEC in the North West, those are his sycophants who will obviously say he must wait to be fired• https://t.co/wntcFgbphc Jump to
                top