Kaizer Ngwenya Nana Masheya (PHOTO: Sharon Seretlo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories For years she was the church leader’s right-hand woman,
helping him run the church hundreds of congregants flocked to every week. But
Nana Masheya claims she witnessed and was subjected to so much abuse she could
no longer keep quiet – and the lid has been lifted on yet another scandal
involving a holy man in Mzansi. Not only does Nana claim to be a victim of abuse, she says
she was also used by the self-styled “prophet” to lure female congregants for
sex under the pretence of prayer and counselling sessions – for which the women
had to pay. And devotees who hoped that the church-supplied holy water and
anointed oils would improve their lot in life were also disappointed to
discover they were really just paying for supermarket olive oil and tap water. Nana (36), who worked as Bishop Tefo Jonas Pitso’s personal
assistant for 10 years, alleges she was also “raped several times” by him. “I
asked him if he had forgotten that a bishop is someone near the holiness of
Jesus Christ’s heart and he told me he has a human body and can be tempted.” Nana blew the whistle that led to the arrest of the
controversial bishop, who heads Jehovah Shammah International Ministries in
Jouberton township in Klerksdorp in the North West. He faces 12 charges of rape and sexual assault on women now
aged between 22 and 36. One of the rape survivors claims she was infected with
HIV after she was raped when she was a teenager. North West police spokesperson
lieutenant colonel Adele Myburgh confirms eight women have opened cases against
the bishop at the Klerksdorp police station. Pitso (49) handed himself over to the
police, Myburgh adds. Nana is tall and slender and wears designer clothes. The
divorced mother of a 10-year-old girl is also streetwise and a persuasive
speaker. DRUM meets her at her home in Jouberton after she spilt the beans on
community radio station Star FM and on social media, levelling shocking
allegations against the bishop. Part of her duties as his PA was to attract young people to
the church, she says, and to “pimp” young women to the bishop. She sold
“anointed oil” to young women who wanted help with marital and other
relationship problems, work opportunities and financial matters. A small bottle
of the oil was sold for R100 but it was really olive oil bought at a
supermarket and decanted into a small bottle with the church logo stuck on it. “And the holy water we sold came from the tap. We also put
it in bottles, stuck a label on it and sold the water to township people,” she
tells DRUM. “Many young women trusted me. They came to my house for help. We
prayed together and I rubbed the anointed oil on their private parts. This is
what the bishop instructed me to do. “I then took pictures of their private
parts and forwarded them to the bishop’s smartphone. He told me he became
powerful after he slept with young women or saw pictures of their private
parts,” she says. Nana alleges the bishop would call these women in for prayer
and counselling sessions where he allegedly demanded sex from them. The women
paid R200 for a prayer session. To convince his congregation he was a prophet,
Nana says, the bishop would travel around the country and to Botswana to
collect information on his flock. This information would be used as “prophecies
from God” during church services and helped convince congregants that he was
indeed a prophet. “He instructed me to plant muthi, snake skins and dead
lizards in people’s yards so he could claim the property was cursed. Then he
would offer to get rid of the bad spirit for a fee,” Nana alleges. She says she
fell under the bishop’s thrall more than 10 years ago when he prayed for her
and saved her from landing up in jail or an early grave. She used to belong to
a gang, Nana says, but Pitso helped her realise the error of her ways. “To be
honest, he changed my life and for that I give him credit. My family used to
worship at the Assemblies of God but after I met Bishop Pitso we joined his
church,” she recalls. It was only after Nana started working for the bishop
that she started to see a dark side to him. She finally had enough when her
grandmother, Grace Mpisi, was humiliated in front of the church’s congregants. Nana alleges one of the bishop’s followers planted a
chameleon in her gogo’s bag and Pitso confronted her during the service,
accusing her of bringing an evil spirit to church. He searched her bag, found
the animal and then started calling her a witch. A few days later she suffered
a heart attack and passed away. It was after this incident, Nana says, that she
realised she needed to do something about what was going on. Drum spoke to the bishop in his office next to his
corrugated iron church before he handed himself over to the police. “I don’t
talk much, especially about my life. I know about the rape charges and
allegations that I infected a young woman with HIV,” he says, his hands steeped
in a confident manner. Pitso says he’s done a lot of good in the community,
buying groceries for poor families and paying school fees for children from
impoverished homes. But all this has been overshadowed by the allegations
against him. “Even Jesus was accused and the people he prayed for and
helped turned against him. I helped Nana who was a tsotsi involved in criminal
activities before I prayed for her and saved her soul. “I turned her life
around. I helped her get a house and bought her a car. Now she’s turned against
me. I don’t know what made her change [her mind] after all the good things I’ve
done for her. I work for Jesus and she wants to destroy what I do.” Church spokesperson Pastor Joseph Pitso, who is not related
to the bishop, dismisses the allegations as a smear campaign started by Nana
who, he says, was trying to extort money from the church leader. He said she
was “spreading lies” about the bishop because she wanted a new car and between
R40 000 and R50 000 a month from him. “She’s an evil woman. She’s trying to destroy our bishop,”
he adds. Pastor Pitso was also arrested on rape charges last year in his
hometown of Virginia in the Free State. “Yes, I can confirm that I was arrested
for raping a minor last year but the charges were withdrawn in December,” he
says. Bishop Pitso, meanwhile, will remain behind bars until next
month. He appeared in the Klerksdorp magistrates court but his bail application
failed. He will be back in court on 7 May. As for Nana, she may be called as a
state witness during the trial, Myburgh says. Although Nana also benefited financially from the scams
Pitso allegedly ran, she claims she had no choice. “I was desperate for money,”
she says. “I didn’t know where else to turn.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  