Christina Pitt Fouzia Fortune received the title deed to her home in Delft from Human Settlements Minister Nomaindia Mfeketo (Christina Pitt, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Housing beneficiaries of the N2 Gateway Project in Delft, Cape Town were overjoyed when Human Settlements Minister Nomaindia Mfeketo handed over 2 000 title deeds on Wednesday. Mfeketo handed over title deeds to 10 beneficiaries at the ceremony at Delft Precinct 7. One of the beneficiaries, Fouzia Fortune, was close to tears when the minister handed her a title deed. "I'm so excited. The first thing I did before I went into my house was pray to God," she said. Fortune said that she had waited 15 years for a home. She spent part of that time on the streets of Blikkiesdorp. "I'm still praying for all the other people who don't have homes yet," Fortune said. During a ceremony at the N2 Gateway Project in Delft, Mfeketo said that she was proud that the housing project had come to fruition. "These houses are different from the small RDP houses of the past," she said. "These houses will give the people a sense of dignity, even if it is one bedroom." Western Cape MEC of Human Settlements Bonginkosi Madikizela congratulated the housing beneficiaries and acknowledged that some beneficiaries had been on the waiting list for years. Delft resident Nikki Kamlande said she and her two-year-old daughter had been waiting for a house since last year. "We are happy, so very happy," she said. The national government-led project was started by Mfeketo when she was still mayor of the City of Cape Town in 2004 to clear informal settlements along the N2 Gateway from the Cape Town International Airport. However, a mismanagement of the allocated time-frames resulted in delayed construction. In 2009, IOL reported that an Auditor-General's report on the project pinpointed a number of deficiencies such as irregular expenditure, housing list irregularities, land invasion and shoddy workmanship on houses still under construction. The project was meant to deliver 15 000 homes for people in Boys Town, Delft precincts 7 to 9, Delft Symphony, New Rest and Joe Slovo. Delft Precinct 7 was completed in 2013 and 4 500 homes were given to residents. Delft Symphony is still under construction and more than 4 200 houses have been completed. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  