DA leader Mmusi Maimane. (Beeld) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories In case you missed it, here are the highlights from City Press on Sunday, May 6. Mmusi Maimane feels pressure as 'white privilege' race row rocks DA Another race row has rocked the DA after senior party leaders took Mmusi Maimane to task over his comments on “white privilege”. Read more Supra Mahumapelo 'defiant' as talks over his exit reach boiling point With less than 48 hours before Luthuli House announces Supra Mahumapelo's fate as North West premier and head of the ANC in the province, he is said to have been “dismissive” during the tense meeting with the inter-ministerial committee on Friday. Read more Fresh row over Busi's hiring of Mahlangu Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has found herself in the line of fire again, with her latest appointment raising eyebrows in her office. Read more Why was intelligence inspector hounded? Sometime in March this year, author Jacques Pauw received a call from inspector-general of intelligence Setlhomamaru Dintwe, unaware that the spooks were listening in. Read more Blade casts doubt on SACP contesting elections SA Communist Party (SACP) boss Blade Nzimande has for the first time admitted that contesting elections separately from the ANC will wreak havoc for the party, and may even cause a split. Read more R500m wasted where it is most needed They allegedly awarded tenders to close relatives, municipal employees and state officials, and broke rules designed to make tender processes fair and competitive. Read more Take back our proud brand It was in the week that news had been confirmed: Jacob Zuma was about to take Bongi Ngema as a fourth current wife, writes Mondli Makhanya. Read the full column Land is a real issue Our quest for land justice is not a pet issue for liberals, including their apologists and the hypersensitive, but an exigent national question that demands rational, cool heads. Like many, I hate the rising political noise and populist postures around the seemingly intractable land conundrum. But, I have a greater fear for silence or reckless pronouncements. Let me explain. Read the full column We need to relook at how referees and TMOs are trained Referees were once the law on a rugby field, not the addled lap poodles they are becoming in Super Rugby. Paddy O’Brien, Andre Watson, Jonathan Kaplan, Alain Rolland and even Wayne Barnes were all sole arbiters on the pitch, their confidence bordering on cocky even when they were clearly wrong. Read more  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  