Mxolisi Mngadi A 19-year-old pupil has died and 24 others were injured when the minibus taxi they were travelling in overturned. (KZN EMS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 19-year-old pupil died and 24 others were injured when the minibus taxi they were travelling in overturned in Sawoti on the south coast of KwaZulu-Natal on Friday. The accident happened shortly after 07:00. The minibus left the road and overturned in the sugarcane field next to the road, police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said. "The minibus was travelling on a gravel road," she said. She added that the 24 injured pupils and the driver had been taken to hospital. "The driver will be charged with culpable homicide," said Mbhele. KwaZulu-Natal Emergency Medical Services (EMS) spokesperson Robert McKenzie said primary and high school pupils were being transported at the time of the accident. Meanwhile in another accident on Friday morning, 20 people were injured, including eighteen children who were on their way to school, after two taxis and two vehicles collided on Khululeka Drive in Clermont, west of Durban. Garrith Jamieson from Rescue Care Paramedics said they arrived at the scene just after 08:00 to find four vehicles had been involved in the crash. "Multiple school children had been hurt and some were removed to the local clinic which was nearby. A total of 20 people had sustained various injuries ranging from minor to serious. The injured were treated by nurses, doctors and paramedics before being transported to various Durban hospitals for the further care that they required," he said. He said at this stage the events leading up to the crash were unknown, "however SAPS were on the scene and will be investigating further".  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  