WATCH: Couple marry in Zim hospital days after serious croc attack A Zimbabwe woman got married in hospital this weekend - days after her arm was bitten off in a crocodile attack near Victoria Falls, a newspaper reported on Sunday. Zanele Ndlovu, a former national tennis player, married Jamie Fox on Saturday in a chapel at Bulawayo's Mater Dei hospital where she was treated for her injuries, reports the Sunday News. "This has never happened before and it is quite exciting. You can tell people are all excited about this," a hospital staffer told the paper. Read more on this story here Parly grilling of Mugabe over Zim diamond corruption delayed Former Zimbabwe president Robert Mugabe will not appear before a parliament committee this week to answer questions on multi-billion-dollar corruption in the diamond industry after the hearing was postponed, a lawmaker said on Monday. The 94-year-old Mugabe had been summoned to appear before a mines and energy committee on Wednesday. But the member of parliament who is leading the inquiry said the hearing had been postponed to a date yet to be decided by the clerk of parliament. For more on this story click here ISS: Zanu-PF primaries 'won't have major impact on presidential vote' The Institute for Security Studies (ISS) says the recently held Zanu-PF primary elections would likely have no major impact on the forthcoming general polls expected before the end of August. The ruling Zanu-PF party held its first primary votes after ex-president Robert Mugabe's ouster in November. The elections held over several days last week were marred by some chaotic scenes, mainly due to the late delivery of ballot papers and the absence of some candidates' names on the voting papers. For more on this story click here 'I'll serve only one term if elected president,' says Joice Mujuru Zimbabwean National People's Party (NPP) leader Joice Mujuru has reportedly pledged to serve only one term if she is elected president in the upcoming elections. According to NewZimbabwe.com, Mujuru said this while addressing her supporters during a rally near Harare where she launched her party's #JoiceIsMyChoice campaign. Mujuru said that the current leadership had outstayed its competitors and had failed to achieve progress. Read more on this story here 'We need young people in PAP,' says Malema after being sworn-in South Africa is committed to strengthening the pan-African parliament even though it still hasn't made a decision on its Malobo protocol, the newly sworn-in member of the Pan African Parliament (PAP), Thoko Didiza has said. Didiza, Chairperson of the national council of provinces Thandi Modise, former president Nelson Mandela’s grandson Mandla Mandela and the EFF’s Julius Malema were among the five south Africans who were sworn into the 255-member institution on Monday. The new members of the PAP have committed to assisting in strengthening the role it plays in the 55 African Union member states it represents. For more on this story click here 'No-one is bigger than Zanu-PF,' Zim leader warns 'ill-disciplined' top adviser – report Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly blasted the country's war veterans chief, who doubles as his top adviser, Christopher Mutsvangwa, following the recently held Zanu-PF primaries. Mutsvangwa made headlines last week when he made suggestions that Mnangagwa would lose the support of war veterans and could also lose elections scheduled for later this year. Mutsvangwa said this after he and several other officials, including cabinet ministers, lost the right to represent Zanu-PF in parliamentary polls. Read more on this story here Mugabe's stolen computers: Lawyer accuses top aide A lawyer representing a Zimbabwean soldier accused of stealing 119 laptops from the country's former president Robert Mugabe, has reportedly turned the tables against the state witness, Wonder Enock Nyamurima, labelling him a suspect in the alleged break-in and theft. According to NewsDay, Tinashe Mbala said that his client, Pepukai Zvakavapano, could not have stolen the gadgets as he had no access to where the computers were being kept. Mbala said the only person who had the keys to the containers where the computers were stored was Nyamurima, who was Mugabe's top aide. Read more on this story here Zimbabwe electoral commission says it won't go to tender over ballot printers - report The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission says it has already selected the company that will print ballot papers for forthcoming polls and won't put the job out to public tender because there's not enough time, the state Sunday Mail has reported. Polls that will likely pit new president Emmerson Mnangagwa and opposition leader Nelson Chamisa of the Movement for Democratic Change as the two main contenders are due before August 31. Mnangagwa took over from longtime leader Robert Mugabe following a military takeover last November. Read more on this story here 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  