Tshidi Madia North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo  has addressed supporters attempting to disrupt what could be his final provincial executive committee meeting as chairperson. (Tiro Ramatlhatse, Gallo Images, Sowetan, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Supporters of embattled North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo have gathered outside an ANC PEC meeting to discuss his resignation. Watch.


WATCH Embattled North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo has addressed supporters attempting to disrupt what could be his final provincial executive committee meeting as chairperson. Earlier, a group of supporters, singing struggle songs and chanting Mahumapelo's name, attempted to force their way into the meeting. Mahumapelo and his PEC are holding an emergency meeting at Mahikeng's Embassy Hall after he confirmed on Tuesday that he was due to resign as premier. DEVELOPING: Vocal Mahumapelo supporters cause tension outside PEC meeting venue Angry supporters, like Ward 17 chairperson Monde Shange, have said they don't want to see Mahumapelo step down, and have instead called for the President Cyril Ramaphosa to go. "When they see us keeping quiet, when they see us being disciplined, it doesn't mean we agree with things that are going on. Just that we want stability," Mahumapelo told supporters. Sources have told News24 that there are two issues on the agenda: Mahumapelo's resignation and a possible replacement. An African National Congress insider said Mahumapelo did not want PEC deputy chairperson Sello Lehare to succeed him, and had put forward the name of Wendy Nelson instead. "I'll come and address you, to tell you about the outcomes of the PEC meeting because we are not accountable to ourselves. We are accountable to the branches of the ANC," Mahumapelo said.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  