Unathi Obose School principal Mlungisi Siko pointing down to the damaged tile that was shot by the criminal during the school robbery.PHOTOS: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Reeling after a robbery incident, Ummangaliso Public Primary School educators in Site B have urged the Department of Education to beef up the security at the school. Last Wednesday, about three unknown men armed with guns stormed into the school and headed for the administration block and demanded cell phones, cash and schools laptops. They had gained entrance through a hole in the perimeter fence. Western Cape Education Department Director for Communications, Bronagh Hammond confirmed the incident, and said no one was injured. “Two school laptops, eight cell phones and a handbag with other personal belongings were taken. Thankfully no one was physically harmed ... obviously, the educators were extremely traumatised,” said Hammond. She said the WCED has offered counselling to the staff and will deploy security guards and repair the fence. School Principal Mlungisi Siko said the incident happened in the afternoon. “Upon their(criminals) arrival in the administration block, they met a cleaner, who they pushed and locked in the toilets. They then went to the secretary’s office and robbed her of two personal cellphones and the school’s cellphone and stole another cellphone from the charger and a school laptop. They also robbed two other educators in the office. The other one was robbed R100 and from the other educator, grabbed his cellphone and R50 ,” he said. Siko said one of the culprits proceeded to the staff room where he and the school management team held a weekly meeting. “The culprit came in and fired a shot on the floor and demanded money. One of the female educators threw her bag to him with R540 inside. The deputy principal said her bag is in her office. The criminal escorted her to the office where he took her cellphone, wallet and school laptop. He also took another educator’s cellphone and her car keys but he later dropped the keys on the passage on their way out,” said Siko. He said about eight cell phones were taken and two laptops and undisclosed sum of money during the robbery. He said it’s not the first time incident like this happened. “I don’t know whether the department wants someone to die someone before they hire security for the school. University of Cape Town learners were robbed here in May last year during a visit. Last September, the foundation phase educators were robbed while they were issuing reports to the learners and criminals took their jewellery, cellphones and wallets. I reported both those incidents but nothing happened,” he said. Siko said he also informed the police about the incident. One of the educators who was robbed, Thembelani Tyhali, said he was traumatized by the incident. “I was going to the secretary’s office to make some photo copies when I met them. They robbed me at gupoint, stealing a phone and money. They tried to take a computer but because of its cables, they could not take it,” said Tyhali. He said their lives are in danger because there is not enough security”at the school. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  