Velani Ludidi Cape Town mayor Patricia De Lille was swamped by ANC supporters during her visit to Nomzamo on Sunday (20 May).PHOTO: velani ludidi Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The “people’s mayor” (as she’s fondly dubbed) was with her right-hand man Loyiso Nkohla, who has supported her since her well-publicised fight with the DA started. The purpose of the meeting was to report back to residents living in informal settlements about the electrification of the areas, a project which has been hampered by several obstacles. The meeting also addressed the issue of people living on underground pipelines and the flooding of canals during and after heavy rainfall. “The only solution to the canals and people living on stormwater pipelines is that they should be relocated to another place,” she told the gathering. “We have found land to move the people to, but we can only move them if they agree to it.” De Lille also provided those in the audience with a timeline for the electrification of the 2 148 structures in Nomzamo and Lwandle. “Given that I will still be a mayor in June, I will be back here and our timetable shows that the electrification will be done by that time,” she promised. The embattled mayor reminded the crowd that service delivery knows no party colours and reiterated her willingness to work with everyone. De Lille, though, shied away from discussing matters relating to the ongoing battle between her and the DA. Nkohla thanked the mayor for her role in making the electrification project a reality. “The project was stuck [in a rut], but after asking the mayor to get involved things started happening,” he recalled. “We are aware of those who tried to hijack this project and call it theirs. We want to warn them that they will not succeed.” Resident Monica Maneli claimed De Lille is the only mayor to visit the area. “She is the only mayor who is working for us and we will support her through this battle with the DA,” she said. A full bench of Western Cape High Court judges will review De Lille’s application which deals with the constitutionality of the DA’s Constitution tomorrow (Friday 25 May). 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  