Correspondent Family members of patients who died after being moved from Life Esidimeni to inadequate facilities attend the arbitration hearing into the matter. (Gallo Images / The Times / Alaister Russell) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Retired Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke is announcing the decision on how much the families and victims of the Life Esidimeni tragedy should be compensated, based on findings of the inquiry into the ill treatment and deaths of vulnerable patients. Watch. WATCH More than 20 Life Esidimeni patients are still unaccounted
for. In a statement on Sunday, DA MP Jack Bloom said police had
informed him that 28 patients were still missing. The Gauteng health department has, however, disputed this,
with spokesperson Lesemang Matuka saying the actual figure is 22. The police could not be reached for comment. Bloom said the figures followed the missing persons case he
had opened with police earlier this year. "While I am pleased that the original list of 62 has
been reduced to 28 patients, there is a decreasing chance of finding them all
since they were discharged two years ago from Esidimeni to illegally registered
NGOs." Bloom said that based on the list he was given by police, 18
men and 10 women, with ages ranging from 27 to 79, were missing. "In two cases the date of birth is given as 1900 and
1914 but this seems to be a mistake," he said. Bloom said that three people were not named on the list,
with one having the description: "Male child David". "It is distressing that so many patients have still not
been found, which highlights the fact that the Esidimeni tragedy is still not
over," said Bloom. At least 144 psychiatric patients died in 2016 after the
Gauteng department of health moved 1 700 mentally ill people from Life
Esidimeni homes into ill-equipped NGOs and state facilities.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  