Mxolisi Mngadi Golden Arrow Bus Services have stopped operating during the nationwide strike. (Jenni Evans/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) has urged its members to picket at depots of all companies involved in the national bus strike. Saftu's acting spokesperson Patrick Craven said that, through the pickets, the union would be showing its solidarity with those on strike and would insist that workers' demands be met by Thursday. The SA Road Passenger Bargaining Council (SARPBC) said on Wednesday that unions and employers agreed to meet again on Thursday to try and break the deadlock. Read: Bus strike: Fresh hope as unions, employers head back to negotiating table 'It's D-Day," SARPBC secretary general Gary Wilson said. Wilson added that the meeting was set for 10:00 in Gauteng. News24 previously reported that SA Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu) spokesperson Zanele Sabela said that, after being given an ultimatum last week by employers that they should accept the latest offer, or the lower one would kick in again, talks had broken down. The last offer was a 9% increase for the first year and 8% for the second year. Transport and Omnibus Workers Union (Towu) general secretary Tony Franks said: "We want to resolve it. The public have a right to get the service." Towu represents mainly Golden Arrow Bus Services drivers and bus engineers in Cape Town. * This story has been updated to correct the quote by SA Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu) spokesperson Zanele Sabela. It was erroneously stated that she had urged workers to accept the latest offer on the table. This is incorrect and we apologise for the error.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  