Wayde van Niekerk. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Jennifer Ferguson reveals who paid for her trip to South Africa, disciplinary charges have been served on suspended SARS boss Tom Moyane and Meghan Markle's parents are set to meet the queen. Here is a roundup of our leading stories: Resign or be recalled - ANC top six tell SupraTime is running out for embattled North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo after President Cyril Ramaphosa met with him on Thursday to communicate the ANC national working committee's verdict that he must resign or be recalled.Jennifer Ferguson reveals who paid for her trip to South AfricaSinger and former ANC MP, Jennifer Ferguson, has revealed who paid for her flight to South Africa when she laid a rape charge against SAFA president Danny Jordaan.2 seismic events at mine where miners are trappedSibanye-Stillwater Mine in Driefontein has been hit by two more seismic events, where operations are under way to rescue three trapped miners.Disciplinary charges served on Tom MoyaneThe Presidency has announced that it has served suspended SARS Commissioner Tom Moyane with disciplinary charges. Three clients in two days: KPMG exodus continues as Sibanye joins packKPMG lost Sibanye Stillwater's business after it too also announced that it would no longer be using the firm’s services as an independent external auditor.Injured Van Niekerk targets July returnOlympic 400m gold medallist Wayde van Niekerk is targeting a return to the track by the start of July, according to his coach Ans Botha.Meghan Markle's parents to meet the queen - Here's everything we knowRoyal officials have confirmed that Meghan Markle's mother and father will arrive a week before her wedding to Prince Harry and will both have significant roles on the day. Meghan Markle. (Photo: Getty Images) AFU's restraint order deficient - Gupta-linked companiesGupta-linked companies are expected to challenge a restraint order in the Free State High Court, which targets assets to the tune of R180m.Indefinite prison sentence for 'psychopathic' baby killerA Cape Town man, who killed his girlfriend's 16-month-old baby, has been sentenced to an indefinite jail term and has to return to the Western Cape High Court in 2043 so that the court can reconsider his sentence and determine if he has been rehabilitated. Baby Eden ransom drama: ‘The family’s really struggling’A friend of the family, whose 13-month-old boy, Eden Laird, from Durban has confirmed to YOU that kidnappers are demanding a huge ransom.Sassa wants to recoup R2m spent on security for Bathabile Dlamini's childrenThe South African Social Security Agency wants to recoup R2m spent on security for former social development minister Bathabile Dlamini's children, a parliamentary reply has revealed.*Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  