Unathi Obose Forensics carry yet another victim of the violence on stretcher to the mortuary..PHOTO: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The police have arrested two people in relation to the taxi violence that gripped the Cape Flats last weekend. At least 10 taxi operators have been killed and three others have been reported injured during a war allegedly between the Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association (Cata) and Congress of Democratic Taxi Associations (Codeta). Six murders occured in Philippi alone, with three in Nyanga and one in Khayelitsha­. Police Communications officer, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, said Tactical Response and National Intervention Units were deployed at hot spots to complement police station deployments. “Provincial police have set up a detective led task team to probe these incidents. On Friday evening, two suspects, aged between 39 and 45, were arrested in Gugulethu and two unlicensed firearms were seized following a shooting incident in Wynberg,” said Rwexana. Rwexana said emergency meetings with role players in the transport sector, the City of Cape Town, traffic services, police and other law enforcement agencies are underway in an effort to determine the source of the violent incidents. Rwexana said police have committed to clamp down on all taxi related violence in the province. However, by Tuesday, Cata Spokesperson Andile Soyamo confirmed that the taxis are operating as usual. “The violence started on Friday afternoon after taxi operators operating between the Delft and Wynberg route were arguing about commuters. “The taxi associations’ agreement was that Codeta members can only pick up people from Delft and drop them in Wynberg, but not to pick up people from Wynberg back to Delft. “Codeta members reneged on that undertaking and wanted to pick up people by force from Wynberg. “An arguing ensued. On their way back, they came acroos one of our operators and opened fire on him,” said Soyamo. He said on Saturday morning they woke up to a spate of taxi operators allegedly shot at and killed by Codeta members. “Immediately, both the associations’ leadership held a meeting to address the issues and curb the violence. We agreed to stop fighting and work together as usual,” said Soyamo. He emphasised that the fight was between Cata and Codeta operators operating between Delft and Wynberg route only. Codeta spokesperson Besuthu Ndungane reiterated Soyamo’s sentiment that as taxi associations they reached an agreement to curb the war and work together. “As from Monday the taxis are on the road operating as usual. We are not sure what caused the violence, but as associations we met and resolved all the difference we had,” he said. Contact the police on 08600 10111. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  