Zim's Mnangagwa: 'Heads to roll in Cabinet soon after elections' Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly promised to wield the axe on under-performing ministers soon after the watershed elections expected before the end of August. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Mnangagwa said that under-performing ministers in his cabinet would be fired should he become victorious in the upcoming polls. Mnangagwa said this during his recent state visit to Qatar this week. Read more on this story here Why are we experiencing cash shortages?, Zim MPs demand answers from finance minister Zimbabwe's Zanu-PF MPs reportedly grilled Finance minister Patrick Chinamasa during a parliamentary discussion this week for skirting questions over the on-going cash crisis and the failure to restrain illegal currency dealers. John Holder from the ruling Zanu-PF party led the legislators as they asked Chinamasa to explain why the country continued to experience cash shortages five months after the new administration of President Emmerson Mnangagwa came into power, NewsDay reported. Read more on this story here The Zim town that hit 'Day Zero'… 20 years ago It may not be a major metropolis, but residents of Kadoma in central Zimbabwe know what it's like to live without water: their Day Zero happened 20 years ago. Many taps in the mining and farming town, around two hours' drive south-west of Harare, are redundant and residents say their children are leaving school without ever using a shower. Man-made crisis "Water is a major challenge in Kadoma (and) in some areas residents have not received the precious liquid from their taps for more than 20 years now," Wikirosi Mutizira, chairperson of the local residents’ association, told the state-run Herald. For more on this story click here Zim elections: At least 3 000 'seek to contest for public office under MDC-T ticket' At least 3 000 party members have "applied to contest for public office under the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC-T) ticket", party officials have reportedly said. According to New Zimbabwe.com, MDC-T chairperson Morgan Komichi confirmed this, saying the party had finished vetting the aspiring candidates. He said that the party would only hold primary votes in constituencies where there was lack of consensus as to who would be representing the party. For more on this story click here Zimbabwe's Mnangagwa rallies war veterans ahead of vote Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Friday urged war veterans to play a central role in campaigning for the ruling Zanu-PF party ahead of elections due in July or August. The elections will be the first in Zimbabwe without Robert Mugabe who was forced from office last year, ending his authoritarian rule over the country since independence from Britain in 1980. The veterans of the 1970s liberation struggle have been a vital cog in the Zanu-PF party, helping Mugabe to hold onto power and often being accused of violence during elections and over land seizures. For more on this story click here UPDATE: Search for survivors as Kenya burst dam toll reaches 44 The search for survivors after a dam burst its banks in central Kenya resumed on Friday with 44 confirmed dead and a further 40 still missing, the region's governor said. Weeks of heavy rains have caused flooding and mudslides across the country that have left 175 dead. On Wednesday evening, the earthen wall of a privately owned irrigation dam in Solai, about 40km north of Nakuru town in Kenya's Rift Valley, breached and inundated nearby settlements. Read more on this story here     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  