Boipelo Mere Derek Hanekom at the Kimberley Mayday Rally with Phokwane’s former mayor Ro­bert Tsikwe. Photo: Boipelo Mere Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Principled unity was described as a critical factor for a better future during a May Day Rally held at the Oppenheimer Gardens in Kimberley on Tuesday, 1 May. This was said by Derek Hanekom, a member of the ANC’s National Executive Committee and currently the minister of Tourism. On the day, Cosatu held a mini rally to hand over their memorandum of grievances to the Northern Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Nocci) and the Department of Mineral Resources after a march from the Galeshewe Open Air Arena. The main event of the May Day celebrations in the Northern Cape was held in Kuruman. Calling on unity within the alliance, Hanekom said the success of the working and ordinary people of South Africa has always depended on unity in an organised way. He said the need for a united working class is needed more than a united Cosatu, which is already divided. “Working class people who are in other trade unions can never be your enemy – they must be your revolutio­nary comrades,” Hanekom said. “Unity in action must be a principled unity, behind the strategic objectives of creating a non-racial, non-sexist, united democratic and prosperous South Africa. ”We cannot unite with people that have fundamental different goals and aspirations,” Hanekom said. He spoke against those who defended wrong doing in the name of unity. “We unite in our fight against poverty, hunger, crime, gangsterism, corruption and state capture,” he said. He reverted to 2017, where he said the alliance was united against cor­ruption until many of their own comrades stood up in defence of wrong­doing. “That cannot be right, we cannot unite in defence of wrongdoing. “When we read about the Vrede Dairy project, and the R30 million that was paid for the Gupta wedding, we say this is our enemy. “It is not someone else’s struggle, that is the money of working people,” Hanekom said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  