Gaza
City - Israeli tank fire at an Islamic Jihad observation post killed three
Palestinians in the southern Gaza Strip on Sunday, Palestinian officials said. The incident happened east of the
city of Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip, a spokesman for the health ministry
in the Palestinian enclave said. The ministry identified those
killed as Hussein al-Amour, 25, Abdul Haleem al-Naqa, 28, and Marwan al-Amour,
25. A statement from the armed wing
of Islamic Jihad, the Al-Quds Brigades, claimed two of them as members. It was
not yet clear if Marwan al-Amour, who died from his wounds later in the day,
was also a member. Palestinian footballer calls on Argentina footballers to boycott Israel Mohamed Khalil was shot in the knee by Israeli forces during the Great March of Return protests in Gaza. He now calls on Messi and Argentina to boycott Israel and not participate in the friendly match. Islamic Jihad is the second-most
powerful armed group in the Gaza Strip after Hamas, which runs the blockaded
Palestinian enclave. Israel's military said in a
statement that the tank fire came after soldiers detonated an explosive device
that had been placed near the border fence, targeting its troops. It said the device had been
hidden inside a pair of fence cutters. Separately on Saturday night,
Israeli aircraft struck two targets belonging to Hamas, but there were no
reports of casualties. The military said the operation
was in response to a brief incursion across the border earlier in the day by
Palestinians who immediately fled back into Gaza. It added that the strike was also
in retaliation for repeated Palestinian attempts to damage the border fence and
"security infrastructure" during ongoing border protests. At least 119 Palestinians have
been killed by Israeli fire in the Gaza Strip since mass protests and clashes
broke out on March 30, according to figures from the Gazan health ministry. No Israelis have been killed
during that time. Low-level demonstrations along
the border have continued since protests peaked on May 14, when at least 61
Palestinians died as tens of thousands of Gazans protested and clashes erupted
over the US moving its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Israel says its actions are
necessary to defend the border and stop mass incursions into its territory. It accuses Hamas, with whom it
has fought three wars since 2008, of seeking to use the protests as cover to
carry out violence. 