Mxolisi Mngadi Facebook murder accused Thabani Mzolo in court. (Mxolisi Mngadi/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The KwaZulu-Natal man accused of killing his girlfriend and allegedly confessing to it on Facebook gave the media the middle finger on Thursday as journalists took photographs and videos of him in the Durban Magistrate's Court. When an angry Magistrate Mohamed Motala reprimanded the accused, Thabani Mzolo, for leaving the dock before Motala had left the court, Mzolo replied: "It's them," referring to the journalists. Deputy police minister Bongani Mkongi was also in the court at the time. ALSO READ: Facebook murder: Court hears murder-accused has previous assault conviction Mzolo allegedly shot dead his ex-girlfriend, Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) student Zolile Khumalo, before taking to Facebook and allegedly confessing to the crime. In the Facebook post, he wrote in isiZulu: "Konke kwaphenduka umlando ukube benginamandla bengzomvusa silungise amaphutha ngomlomo ...kodwa mnj kuphi laa ngba usehambe wangshiya ngingasashongo ukt ngyamxolela (sic)." The post is loosely translated as: "It is surreal. If I had the power I would bring her back so that we can right our wrongs by talking. But that's no longer possible because she has left me without me having told her that I forgive her." ALSO READ: Facebook murder: Zolile Khumalo murder-accused smiles in the dock When one of Mzolo's Facebook friends asked him what had happened, he wrote, "Ndoda ngombulele uMy zozo (sic) (Man, I killed my Zozo)." It is suspected that he posted the message shortly after allegedly committing the crime. State prosecutor Calvin Govender revealed in court that
Mzolo allegedly shot Khumalo twice and that after shooting her, he kicked her
as she was on the floor. Mkongi told journalists outside court that he was "very
angry" with Mzolo's "attitude". "It shows us that this dog doesn't have any remorse. By
virtue of showing the people of South Africa a middle finger, it tells all of
us that he is prepared to kill again, and he doesn't respect anyone," said
Mkongi. He said Mzolo's behaviour in court suggested that he had no
respect for police, the magistrate and the law as he was still in the dock when
he showed journalists the middle finger. "He deserves many years in jail," Mkongi said. The case was postponed to June 19 for a bail application. He is in custody until then.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  