File: AFP Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Nigeria on Wednesday ordered increased security around markets and places of worship after a twin suicide bomb attack killed scores of people in the country's restive northeast. The emergency services said at least 26 people died in the blasts in the town of Mubi, Adamawa state, on Tuesday but local residents said they buried more than 60 victims. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, deputising for President Muhammadu Buhari who has been on a visit to the United States, said the government was "shocked and outraged" by the attacks. "This desecration of a place of worship by criminals is tragic and condemnable," Osinbajo said in an e-mailed statement. "Security agencies have been directed to immediately take steps to beef up security in Mubi and environs, especially markets and places of worship," he added. The attacks came a day after US President Donald Trump promised Nigeria more support in the fight against Boko Haram Islamists, whose insurgency has killed at least 20 000 since 2009. 'This is the worst attack' The jihadists have repeatedly used suicide bombers against "soft" civilian targets such as markets, mosques and bus stations across the northeast. One resident who attended funerals of those who died on Tuesday said he helped to bury 68 people. Another said 73 graves had been dug. Both said more bodies were to come. "I think this is the worst attack Mubi has ever witnessed. The human loss is unimaginable," said one local, Muhammad Hamidu. Since late 2015, Nigeria's military and government has maintained that Boko Haram is a spent force, but regular bombings and raids suggest otherwise. Last week, fighters loyal to Boko Haram factional leader Abubakar Shekau attempted to infiltrate the Borno state capital, Maiduguri, but were pushed back by troops. Security is expected to dominate the run-up to the next election in February 2019, at which Buhari will stand for a second term. He promised to defeat Boko Haram but is now facing a series of security challenges elsewhere, not least an escalation of violence in a long-running dispute between farmers and herders. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  