Aljoscha Kohlstock
News24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The dry Western Cape can expect heavy rain and gale force winds, with flooding in certain areas on Tuesday. Alerts Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the northeastern parts of the Eastern Cape and the southeastern parts of the Free State. Gale force northwesterly winds (60-75km/h) are expected in places between Cape Point and Cape Agulhas at times, moderating in the evening. Localised flooding is expected in places over the Cape Metropole, clearing from the afternoon. High seas with wave heights of between six and eight metres are expected between Cape Point and Cape Agulhas from Tuesday afternoon, subsiding overnight. Rain The Western Cape is expected to receive much-needed rain with heavy rain and there will be localised flooding over the Cape Metropole, with thundershowers extending over the Cape Winelands and Overberg districts. Scattered morning showers are also expected along the West Coast. Temperatures Minimum temperatures are expected to be cool over the central parts of the country, with cool morning temperatures for the North West, the Northern Cape, the Free State, Gauteng, and parts of Mpumalanga, with warmer conditions along the East Coast and southern coastline. Minimum temperatures are expected to be cool to cold across the country, with warm conditions along the East Coast. The coldest places in South Africa are expected to be Klerksdorp and Potchefstroom in the North West, dropping to a near-freezing 1°C. As a cold front passes over the Western Cape and parts of the Northern Cape, maximum temperatures are expected to be cool to cold across the West Coast, including the Western Cape and the southwestern parts of the Northern Cape, with moderate temperatures for the central parts of the country.Moderate to warm conditions are predicted for the coastline and the East Coast, as well as the northern border of Limpopo. The hottest places in South Africa will be Phalaborwa in Limpopo, Skukuza in Mpumalanga, and Port St Johns and Mthatha in the Eastern Cape, all reaching a high of 30°C. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days Pretoria is expected to experience a maximum of 26°C, while Johannesburg is expected to have a high of 25°C. A high of 24°C is predicted for Bloemfontein. Along the coastal regions, Cape Town is expected to reach 17°C, Port Elizabeth 24°C and Durban 28°C.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  