Mahlohonolo Magadla Wits University.  (Gallo images/Getty images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Point Central student accommodation residence confirmed to DRUM an incident involving a student jumping from one of their buildings. It’s understood the student, who attended Wits University, jumped from the third floor of Clifton Heights in Braamfontein on Thursday evening. According to an email issued by Wits to its students, the student passed away just after 21:00. "The university regrets to announce a Wits student passed away last night just after 9pm, following a fall from a building in Braamfontein. Our deepest condolences are extended to the family and friends of the students and those who knew him well. May he rest in peace," the statement read. The university also added that the acting dean, student representatives and the SAPS were on the scene as soon as they were alerted and went on to offer counselling services to those who may need it. Speaking to DRUM, South Point Central’s marketing manager, Nyiko Chauke, confirmed the incident and that the student accommodation group is still investigating the matter. "We cannot give the details of the incident yet as we are still investigating the matter and since it is still very sensitive, however, we can confirm an incident did take place at our Clifton Heights residence on Thursday night," he said. In October last year 19-year-old Wits student, Kago Moeng, committed suicide by jumping from the sixth floor of a South Point student residence. Social media users have taken to Twitter to express their frustrations over the rising number of student suicides. DRUM has contacted Gauteng SAPS spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela and he said he hadn’t yet been informed of the incident. More details to follow. Another #BraamSuicide ?????????????????????? Another #BraamSuicide this time around from my building ??????And still our student accommodations are not helping us deal with academic pressure and teach us about mental issues. All they care about is their rent being due or we are locked out ???? #braamsuicide ?? I feel guilty everytime this happens ..we need more of this support groups...a few minutes with a psychologist aren't enough smtimes .. dm me your digits or drop them in comments section.. you cant simply snap out of it pic.twitter.com/VYotBKFxlX It's sad what students go through in these Universities, it saddens me more knowing that I nearly became a statistic. #DepressedButNotDefeated#BraamSuicide #Braamsuicide How does one decides that enough is enough, how do you put your mental health a priority over your academics when the first thing that comes to mind is how your folks will complain bout losing their monies over nothing? The pressure is too much "a fall" ... it's a fvcken suicide. Can @WitsUniversity just go get the stats from Akeso about how many Wits students they admit annually. It's so shocking guys ... #BraamSuicide pic.twitter.com/iVXzA6bQKQ #BraamSuicide it can't be an annual thing?? https://t.co/aFob7GkpDQ My deepest condolences go out to the friends and family of the young gentleman who committed suicide in Braam. May his soul Rest In Peace Everybody feel you but don't feel your pain.. #BraamSuicide#WitsSuicide#SouthPointSuicide  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  