MDC leader Chamisa under fire after he jokes that he can give his sister, 18, to Mnangagwa as wife Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Nelson Chamisa has reportedly come under fire after he made a gender insensitive political banter during his recent election campaign. According to New Zimbabwe.com, addressing his Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party supporters in the United Kingdom over the weekend, Chamisa "predicted a crashing defeat for Mnangagwa". "If Mnangagwa wins 5% in a free election, I will give him my sister. I have a sister who just turned 18 and looking for a husband. "I am betting on this because I know it won’t happen," Chamisa was quoted as saying.  Read more on this story here Couple who married after croc attack: 'In one week we went from shock to truly amazing experience' A couple attacked by a crocodile wedded days later in a Zimbabwean hospital, where the bride was recovering after losing an arm. "In one week we went from shock and agony to a truly amazing experience," 27-year-old Jamie Fox told The Associated Press Monday. Fox and his then fiancée, Zenele Ndlovu, were canoeing on the Zambezi, one of Africa's longest rivers when a crocodile attacked them on April 30. Zenele lost her right arm and suffered injuries to her left hand. Five days later, they married in a hospital chapel.  For more on this story click here 'In all this, I'm not complaining,' says Zim croc attack bride undaunted The Zimbabwean woman who survived a horrific crocodile attack just days before her wedding says she's "not complaining" and only wants friends and family to make her laugh. Zanele Ndlovu, a former child tennis star, lost her right arm after a crocodile attacked the inflatable canoe she and her husband-to-be were paddling in above the Victoria Falls last week. Comfort to relatives "I get depressed by people who come here and start crying you know," Ndlovu told the Chronicle newspaper in an interview at Bulawayo's Mater Dei hospital where her badly-mauled right arm had to be amputated above the elbow.  For more on this story click here Zim first lady says goodbye to PAP with 'heavy heart' – reports Zimbabwean First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa has reportedly bed farewell to the Pan African Parliament (PAP) to "pursue other commitments". According to eNCA, Auxillia said that she was leaving PAP with "a heavy heart". The first lady said goodbye to the 255-member institution on Monday during the 6th ordinary session of the 4th PAP in Midrand. A Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC) report quoted her as saying that the PAP needed to be transformed from being a consultative entity into a fully-fledged parliament.  Read more on this story click here Boy dies after mom strangles, suffocates him in dish full of water to death – report A 38-year-old mother in Zimbabwe reportedly appeared in court last week after she allegedly strangled and suffocated her son in a dish full of water until he died. According to New Zimbabwe, Vanessa Ayinesi Bwaneli appeared at the Harare magistrate's court on a murder charge after killing her son Tinashe on December 21 last year. The court heard that after Bwaneli had suffocated her son, she rushed to the clinic pretending that the boy had accidentally fallen into the dish of water.  Read more on this story here Mozambican leader to pay tribute to late rival Dhlakama Mozambique's president, Filipe Nyusi, will pay tribute to political rival and main opposition leader Afonso Dhlakama, who died last week, according to the programme for his memorial service scheduled for Wednesday. Dhlakama who led Renamo for nearly 40 years, died unexpectedly at the age 65 last Thursday from an illness at his hideout base in the Gorongosa mountains in the centre of the country. The talismanic figure played a central role in Mozambique's history after it gained independence from Portugal in 1975.  For more on this story click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  