Nosipho Mkhize Grant Oosthuyzen in his studio.PHOTO: nosipho mkhize Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories GRANT Oosthuyzen (26), who took up a challenge at the Amashova Durban Classic Race last year when he rode 35 km using one big toe with a power wheelchair to raise R80 000 for KZN Boccia, has now launched a photography studio called GMO Photography. Oosthuyzen said a portion of the money he makes from the studio goes towards charity “GMO Photography began in 2016. I took photos as a hobby and was able to sell my pictures at various markets. Doing this with my foot is challenging but I just keep at it till I get the shot I need. I enjoy the fact that an idea of a studio was born. It seemed such an expensive option for many, however, I like to make it more affordable. The launch took place in April where many models, agencies and business people came together to share this special event,” he said. Oosthuyzen said he started this studio so he can be independent while taking care of his financial needs. “Employment is very difficult for the disabled in South Africa and being so independent I wanted to find a way that I could take care of my financial needs. Being in the model world and working with models showed me that not everyone can afford a studio portfolio. So I have opened this studio to assist these models get their portfolios at an affordable price. I do model portfolios, portraits, family and corporate shoots. A portion of the money made at the studio goes towards charity.” Oosthuyzen schooled at Open Air in Durban and attended Damelin College to study towards graphic design. “I also studied web design at Keyline and I completed a photography course through Shaw Photography. I play disabled bowls and have represented South Africa as well as our province for the last 14 years. “I now coach the sport at various special needs homes,” he said. Amazingly, Oosthuyzen is the first disabled person to own a photography studio in the country. “I am the first disabled person to have a studio in SA so I am proud to encourage others to reach for their dream in whatever that may be. Certain aspects are scary as it was a big financial outlay but with time I trust that people will see the lovely environment that we offer. “There are always challenges but I think the biggest is marketing and to get people to believe that I am able to do this and do it well. I would like to thank Wilna Wepenaar Properties in New Germany for assisting me with the signage as well as Made for More Charity in Wentworth for their sponsors.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  