YOU Digital PHOTO: Getty Images/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories After the alleged Golden State killer was arrested last
month, many people were shocked by the fact he had worked as a policeman. But according to criminologist Michael Arntfield, police
work attracts serial killers. Arntfield argues in his book Murder
in Plain English that certain jobs attract serial killers and he developed
this theory based on patterns which have emerged in the past 50 years, reports Metro
UK. Serial killers may be attracted to these jobs because they
satisfy their underlying mental disorders – or for chillingly practical reasons,
says Arntfield. He told IFLScience
that killers choose jobs due to a combination of “mobility, power (whether
structural or actual), and the fact many jobs also simultaneously satisfy the
underlying paraphilias, or sexual preoccupations, that also fuel killers’
crimes.” Arntfield lists the following as jobs that serial killers
are most likely to work in: Skilled jobs 1. Aircraft machinist/assembler 2. Shoemaker/repair person 3. Automobile upholsterer. Semi-skilled jobs 1. Forestry worker/arborist 2. Truck driver 3. Warehouse manager Unskilled jobs 1. General labourer 2. Hotel porter 3. Petrol pump attendant Professional jobs 1. Police 2. Army 3. Religious official Professional and
Government jobs: 1. Police/security official 2. Military personnel 3. Religious official In an article he wrote on the news site The
conversation, Arntfield clarified that not everyone occupying these jobs is
a serial killer, nor are they likely to become one. But there’s something about these jobs that’s “inherently
appealing to offenders”. “Or that otherwise cultivates the impulses of serial
killers-in-waiting and causes them to be curiously over-represented among this
rare breed of murderer,” Arntfield says. Sources: The
conversation, Metro
UK, IFLScience,
National
Post  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  