Kaveel Singh Police react after crowd violence during the Nedbank Cup semi-final match between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars at Moses Mabhida Stadium. (Anesh Debiky, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories KwaZulu-Natal police have released images of several persons of interest allegedly linked to violence that broke out at the Moses Mabhida Stadium during a Nedbank Cup semi-final clash between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars last month. "The investigating team, in conjunction with the senior public prosecutor, has released images of persons who we believe can assist [with] the investigation. We are appealing to those captured on these images to please contact the investigating officers immediately," police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said. ALSO READ: Magistrate lambasts men accused of Moses Mabhida Stadium hooliganism He added: "We are also appealing to members of the public who are in a position to identify these individuals to also contact Captain Reddy on 082 458 5630 or detective warrant officer Mlungwana on 082 662 7764." Naicker said all information would be treated "with the strictest confidence and those who wish to remain anonymous can do so". So far, four people have been arrested and charged for malicious damage to property and pitch invasion. They are all appearing in the Durban Magistrate's Court later this month. ALSO READ: KZN police appeal for statements from victims of Moses Mabhida Stadium violence The damage to the stadium was estimated at R2.6m, and about 18 people were injured. In the aftermath of the violence, the police who oversaw security at the venue were blamed by the Premier Soccer League (PSL). Moses Mabhida Stadium manager Vusi Mazibuko said they were looking at improving security at the venue. One person who was initially arrested was released due to a lack of direct evidence linking them to the violence.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  