Tammy Petersen Henri van Breda. (News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Western Cape High Court has found Henri van Breda guilty of the murder of his parents and brother. Watch the moment Judge Siraj Desai handed down the judgment.WATCH Eleven objective facts sealed the fate of convicted murderer Henri van Breda. Van Breda, 23, will spend his first night behind bars in Pollsmoor Prison's hospital section, after he was found guilty of axing his mother, father and brother to death, attempting to kill his sister and defeating the ends of justice. Judge Siraj Desai said in his judgment that, although "anything is possible in the realm of ordinary human experience", eleven objective facts established that Van Breda was the man who brought down the axe on his family in the early hours of January 27, 2015. Van Breda pleaded not guilty to axing his parents – Teresa and Martin – and brother Rudi to death, seriously injuring his sister, Marli, and defeating the ends of justice by tampering with the scene.  He alleged that an intruder, wearing a balaclava, gloves and dark clothing, was behind the attack, and that he had heard other voices of people speaking Afrikaans in 12 Goske Street. Van Breda claimed that, after a fight with the axe-wielding intruder who also had a knife, the man had fled their home situated in the centre of the lavish estate. The State disproved his version of events, basing their case on circumstantial evidence. READ: Operator thought Van Breda emergency call was a prank, court hears There was no direct evidence implicating Van Breda. "Each piece of evidence on its own might not be enough to establish the guilt of the accused but the cumulative effect of all the pieces concludes the puzzle. Independent circumstances point to the same conclusion. This leads to only one reasonable inference," Desai said in his 103-page summary judgment. "The court finds that the accused had sufficient time to tamper with the scene and thus portray him to be a victim." After appearing to nod off at times as Desai went through the extensive details of the case which led to his verdict, Van Breda was stone'-faced when the judge found him guilty of all counts. Prosecutor Susan Galloway objected to Van Breda being released on bail ahead of sentencing proceedings and a possible appeal. Desai ruled that the interest of society dictated that he be detained. He will be kept in the hospital section of the prison because he has epilepsy and depression. ALSO READ: Neurologist initially suspected Van Breda of faking illness While he entered the Western Cape High Court on Monday morning holding his girlfriend Danielle Janse van Rensburg's hand, the brunette briskly walked out that afternoon alone and in tears. Sentencing proceedings are expected to commence on June 5. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  