Christina Pitt Abahlali baseMjondolo march to the Durban City Hall demanding an end to evictions. (Supplied, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Right2Know Campaign (R2K) has condemned the assassination of S'fiso Ngcobo, chairperson of shack dwellers movement Abahlali baseMjondolo in the Durban informal settlement of eKukhanyeni. Ngcobo was gunned down by three unknown people in Durban on Tuesday evening. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed that Ngcobo had died upon arrival at hospital. "The motive for the attack is unknown. A case of murder was opened at Marianhill police station for investigation," she said. In a statement on Thursday, R2K said: "We believe these violent actions are the 'traditional weapons' the authorities and others continue to use to silence and intimidate AbM in its struggle for land and housing rights for the poor. "We believe in general, that these tactics of violence are being used to create a climate of fear and intimidation against anyone who 'speaks out' for justice in KZN." Abahlali spokesperson Sbu Zikode told News24 that five of their leaders had been killed over the past eight months. R2K also condemned the "silence" of the justice system during the "killings of activists that are tearing the province apart". The campaign called upon civil society to band together to hold those responsible to account for the murders. "We have lost a soldier in arms and we have soldier injured we must stand in the gap as civil society and close this gap," said the statement. "It has become true that under ANC rule, the price for people's rights - including land and dignity - continues to be paid for in blood, as stated by Abahlali baseMjondolo." R2K said it stood in solidarity with Abahlali and the families of their slain members. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  