Tholakele Mnganga PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories After more than
a year since the brutal murder of their daughter Karabo Mokoena, her family now
believe that can begin to find closure after her boyfriend Sandile Mantsoe was
found guilty and handed
a 32-year sentence for her murder. The 28-year forex
trader was sentenced to a cumulative 32-years behind bars after being found
guilty of murder, defeating the ends of
justice and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. Taking the stand
in final arguments, Mantsoe apologised to
the Mokoena family for burning their 22-year-old daughter in 2017 but stopped
short of confessing to murder, insisting he did not kill Karabo. Reflecting on
Mantsoe sentence, Karabo’s Uncle Tshepo Mokoena says the family just want to
put the whole ordeal behind them. “It’s been very
hard,” Karabo’s paternal uncle said, “There are lots of cases that are
unresolved and we are happy as a family that the case has been resolved and we
are going to find closure.” In handing down
sentencing, acting Judge Peet Johnson described Mantsoe as a ‘devil in disguise’ for believing his money would see him escape
punishment, adding that the father of three deserved nothing less than a harsh
punishment as he is a danger to society. One accusation
Mantose put to the Mokoena family was
that Karabo was abused by her father Thabang Mokoena, but her younger brother Tshepo Mokoena
insists the family never once thought the patriarch would hurt his daughter in
any way. “It’s been very
tough for all of us. You heard the judge say Sandile insulted the entire family
and our father, so it’s been very tough and difficult,” he said outside the Johannesburg
South high court. “But that
didn’t bother us that much because we know that Karabo has a bubbly and loving
father. He is a very kind man with lots of humour.
So that didn’t bother us, I know my father more than anyone else.” Mantsoe's defense team has indicated in that it will
apply for leave to appeal both his conviction and sentence. However, for younger
sister Bontle, Mantsoe has shown no sympathy for the pain and hurt he caused
the Mokoena family. “Sandile was
never remorseful. He’s like a psychopath, I don’t even know how to describe the
person that he is. It’s funny how he says that she was such a great person but
yet you kill her. Does that make any sense whatsoever? It’s a contradiction.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  