Jeanette Chabalala As
the country commemorates Workers' Day, political parties, trade unions and Parliament have said more still needed to
be done for South Africa's working class. Rallies are being held across the
country in celebration of the country's workers. In a statement issued on Tuesday,
the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) pledged to keep up
the struggle to forge the "political weapon" of the working
class. The union claimed the ANC-led
government had become an oppressor of the working class. "Today, the ANC government
is attacking the working class by proposing poverty national minimum wages of
R20, R18, R15 and R11 per hour, depending upon the sector of employment." It said the working class had
made it clear that they will not accept a "poverty wage" as proposed
by the ANC’s national minimum wages. "We demand a genuine
national minimum wage, which must be a living wage, today. We will not accept
any national minimum wage which perpetuates the racist and colonial wage
structure in post-1994 South Africa. "We are not willing to
compromise on this anymore. We are fed up with the ANC governments’ relentless
assaults on black and African working class living conditions."  'Improve legislation' Parliament's presiding officers
said they will continue to improve the legislative landscape to consolidate
workers’ victories and rights. Parliament said it was amending
existing legislation and it will also
introduce more to ensure that the "laws governing the employer and
employee relations in South Africa further bolster the successes that we have
achieved since the advent of democracy in 1994". It also said once the new
National Minimum Wage Bill which was introduced in November last year,  will advance economic development
and social justice by improving the wages of the lowest paid workers. It will also protect them from
unreasonably low wages, promote collecting bargaining and also support economic
policy, it said. 

 "It will ensure that the
pervasive and entrenched exploitation of workers in various sectors of the economy
is put to a stop."  DA talks land Meanwhile, leader of the
Democratic Alliance Mmusi Maimane also took the opportunity on Workers' Day to
speak about land. Addressing farm workers at an
event in Wellington in the Western Cape, Maimane said the party stands accused
of opposing redress on land. "Because we voted against
the EFF’s proposal to dismantle part of the Constitution to allow for land
grabs, they tried to label us as 'anti-redress'. "The notion that anyone who
stands opposed to the EFF’s land expropriation without compensation is also
opposed to land reform is nonsense." He said they voted against the
EFF's proposal because it will do nothing to empower the poor black South
African. "In fact, it will only make
them poorer. You see, by their model, all land will become the property of the
state, and no individuals will own anything. This is what they don’t mention in
their slogans. "But they intend to take
away everyone’s property, whether you’re black or white, and make everyone
permanent tenants of the state. That’s not empowerment. That’s just another
poverty trap," Maimane said. Socialism is the answer, says EFF The EFF said in its statement for
Workers' Day that there was "no complete freedom without the
land". "... The EFF calls on land
expropriation without compensation for equal redistribution to improve the
conditions of farm workers. All workers need the land and farmworkers also need
to share in the ownership of agricultural land and produce." The party said the "true
solution" to capitalist development was socialism. "South Africa faces one of
the most brutal capitalist developments in human history whereby whose
articulation with colonial anti-black racism continues to sustain wage
inequalities on racial lines. Above all, apartheid and the post-apartheid
states have ensured the continued availability of blacks as cheap and easily
disposable labour." The EFF, while welcoming the
minimum wage "in principle", was
opposed to the set figure of R20 an hour. The party condemned the "exploitative conditions" of medical staff, while calling for a national review of
salaries to ensure that women are paid the same as men for doing the same
job.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  