Kaveel Singh Kaizer Chiefs fans attack a security guard at the Moses Mabhida stadium in Durban. (Screen grab via SABC) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A date has been set for the trial of 10 soccer fans, who face charges in connection with the pitch invasion at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in April. John Khumalo, Phelelani Jojisa‚ Lungisani Jaca‚ Zibongile Njova‚ Nolwethu Sokotha‚ Douglas Mkhize‚ Cebolendoda Hadebe‚ Khwezilomo Madiba‚ Sihle Zungu and Siphosenkosi Memela appeared in the Durban Magistrate's Court on Friday. Their case has been moved to the Durban Regional Court on June 26. Madiba is accused of assaulting a security guard during the incident. Police had to trek to the Eastern Cape to arrest him. This was the first time all accused appeared together following the chaos at the April 21 Nedbank Cup semi-final between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars. Fans invaded the pitch after Chiefs suffered a defeat. READ: Chiefs plead guilty to Moses Mabhida violence The 10 accused have been barred from attending any sporting fixture or recreational gathering until their case was finalised. In a previous appearance, some of the men were lambasted by seasoned Magistrate Mahomed Motala, who told them they had stained the reputation of the country. "Sport lovers everywhere say they will not attend sporting functions because of what they witnessed at Moses Mabhida Stadium on that fateful day. You must give careful thought [to] what your actions have resulted in. Reflect on the damage done on our country and our city." During a press briefing earlier this month, eThekwini Metro Mayor Zandile Gumede said damage from the incident was R2.6m. Police had to use tear gas and stun grenades to disperse the unruly fans, who could be seen hurling chairs and beating security officials. Footage shows fans severely beating a security guard. The scenes were widely criticised on social media and by the sporting community. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  