Kaveel Singh (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The family of slain ANC Lower South Coast region politician, Sifiso Cele, says he did not deserve to die violently. His stepdaughter, Mbali Chemane, told media outside her mother's home that Cele, the treasurer of Oshabeni Branch, was a humble and honest man. "He has been with us for so long, he was not even like a step dad. It's a brutal act." She said Cele did not try to fight the men and followed their instructions. "Sifiso did not fight. His arms were raised the whole time. He did not say a single word. Ma said throughout the four shots, she did not hear his cries." Police Minister Bheki Cele assembled the Hawks, Crime Intelligence and the Provincial Task Team for Political Killings at the Margate Police Station on Tuesday to ascertain progress in the investigation. Cele was attacked and killed at Chemane's mother's home on Monday morning as the family prepared to begin their day. 'This is a common thing in this area' Two gunmen stormed the home and locked the domestic worker, Cele's partner Linky Chemane, and two young children who live at the home, in the bathroom. The men robbed the family of cellphones and cash, but kept Cele in the main bedroom. There, he was shot four times after handing over his cellphone and R3 000. The police minister said authorities suspected that the robbery was a "decoy" for an ulterior motive to kill Cele. Minister of Police Bheki Cele says the killing of Lower South Coast leader Sifiso Cele appears to be well-orchestrated. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/TaoA9bd6p9  "The assailants did take money, but they also had an opportunity to rob another person who lives on the property, but they did not. We feel they could have stolen items as a decoy." Cele said KwaZulu-Natal's history of political violence was at the forefront of the investigations. "This is a common thing in this area. I was meeting with the Hawks more than anybody. I have been briefed about murders from recent years." Cele said all teams were working around the clock to solve the murder. Look at us and you will be shot Relaying her mother Linky's experience of the robbery and murder, Chemane said the assailants had threatened her cousins, aged five and 10, who live at the home. "They said if the kids looked at them, they will be shot," Chemane said. She said that her mother was contemplating selling the home. "We are so terrified. We don't know the exact motive is. Last night, we did not sleep a wink. The kids are having nightmares." The ANC's Lower South Coast regional secretary, Mzwandile Mkhwanazi, said this was the second killing in two weeks, following the shooting of Nombuso Mqadi, a Ward 5 branch member. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  