(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Madagascar's defence minister has appealed to warring
political parties to reach an agreement, as anti-government protests in the
capital continued for a twelfth day. President Hery Rajaonarimampianina has refused to
yield to opposition demands that he resign, seven months ahead of a general
election. The opposition accuses the government of trying to
elbow them out of the race, through new electoral laws they claim benefit the
incumbent. "We, the law enforcement officials, call loud and
clear for the leaders of the political parties involved in the current crisis
to be responsible and find a solution as soon as possible," said Defence
Minister, General Beni Xavier Rasolofonirina. "We appeal to all citizens, without exception, to
no longer be manipulated by the policies," added the defence minister, who
read from a statement signed by the heads of the army and police. "It's enough bloodshed, loss of human life, do
not make selfishness and greed reasons to sacrifice our compatriots." The protests erupted nearly two weeks ago in
Antananarivo and on the first day two people were killed and at least 16 people
wounded, with the police accused of firing real bullets at the crowd. The large Indian Ocean island, which has been beset by
decades of political instability, is due to hold polls in late November or
December. Rajaonarimampianina has not yet announced whether he
will stand for re-election. Two former heads of state have already said they will
be candidates: Marc Ravalomanana, who was president from 2002 to 2009, and
Andry Rajoelina, who removed Ravalomanana during a coup. Both were barred from running in 2013 and their
parties have been involved in the demonstrations. Representatives of both the president's party and of
the opposition met on Wednesday to try to find a solution to the crisis. * Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE
TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER FOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  