Magazine Features PHOTO: CATERS/WWW.MAGAZINEFEATURES.CO.ZA Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories This seven-year-old school
girl has made history by becoming the youngest female to scale the dizzying
heights of Mount Kilimanjaro. Montannah Kenney from Texas, US, had trained for several
months alongside her mother Hollie Kenney
before the daring pair completed the climb from their base camp to the peak in
just six and a half days. The young girl climbed the huge mountain in honour of her father, who sadly passed away in
2013. "We've always talked about her dad being in heaven,
and we always talk about her dad being above the clouds – that's where heaven
is," says Hollie. "And I think mountains are very intriguing to her
because a lot of them are above (clouds)." Despite having trained by completing long hikes around
their hometown, Montannah and her mom weren’t entirely prepared for the rain,
hail, and freezing temperatures they faced while climbing to the summit. "When I called the Tanzania office [later] to talk to
them, they said, 'We heard you had the worst weather in 10 years,'" says
the mom. "And no one ever alluded to that when we were up
there. We just figured it was normal and something we had to deal with, but the
weather was terrible."  Although the mother and daughter are both experienced
triathletes, the proud mom approached the new plan with extra caution, both
before and during the climb. She consulted a doctor for tips on how her daughter could
scale the mountain carefully and was fully prepared to head down if Montannah
experienced any altitude sickness. Considering the low oxygen levels at the dormant volcano's
peak – successful climbers can only spend minutes there – Montannah celebrated
her achievement the best way she could. "I blew kisses at dad, so he knew I was there,"
the 7-year-old told The Austin American-Statesman.  The pair completed the climb in part to raise money for eye
movement desensitisation and reprocessing therapy – a type of therapy that's
commonly used on trauma survivors. Montannah's dad had just begun
EMDR therapy when he died. Source: Magazine
Features Pictures: CATERS/WWW.MAGAZINEFEATURES.CO.ZA  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  