In the aftermath of the DA effectively axing Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille, and De Lille's outspoken response, deputy mayor Ian Neilson has held a briefing of his own, addressing the logistics of what happens next. Jump to
                    bottom WATCH: De Lille told to vacate office immediately Neilson: There will be no "major purge" of staffers close to De Lille.  Ian Neilson says De Lille is no longer the mayor or a councillor, in terms of the Municipal Structures Act.  ICYMI: De Lille: "I'm ready to continue this fight" (via SABC) In reference to the radio interview that the DA cited as the reason for expelling her, De Lille says she was already on a few radio shows last night and she will "continue to talk". And with that, the briefing concludes.  De Lille: "If they think it's a victory today, it's a victory for the conservative people in the DA who don't want to see transformation in the City of Cape Town."  When asked if she still considers herself the mayor of Cape Town, De Lille says she has a meeting with the city manager at 14:00, and will also be going back for a meeting with the deputy mayor, who she heard already had a meeting with her staff this morning while she was away.  De Lille reveals she is writing a book.  De Lille: "I'm ready to continue to fight... it's because of the City of Cape Town, it's because of them I am ready to fight. I have made a commitment to serve the people of the City of Cape Town, and I have continued to do so."  WATCH LIVE:  De Lille: "I'm still ready to serve my country in any capacity."  De Lille now answers questions on the fraudulent news post shared by DA members on social media, says it was also shared on a WhatsApp group. She will pursue legal action in this regard.  Meanwhile, ahead of "acting" Cape Town mayor Ian Neilson's briefing.  Caught a quick glimpse of #CapeTown city manager Lungelo Mbandazayo ahead of his and Deputy Mayor Ian Neilson's briefing on #DeLille @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/ESUFqP8bV0 #DeLille now taking questions from the media. #DA @TeamNews24 BREAKING: #DeLille says the party has forced her to go to the courts, which she will do on Friday at 10:00. Her lawyers will argue that the #DA's "cessation clause" is unconstitutional and unfairly applied to her. @TeamNews24 De Lille insists she has not been found guilty of anything.  #DeLille says she wants to clear her name. For months she has been subjected to slander, and as she sits there, she still "has not been found guilty of anything". #DA @TeamNews24 #DeLille claims that the #DA once again has tried to use "yet another shortcut" to remove her. @TeamNews24 De Lille says she was only informed this morning by the DA that she had lost her party membership.  De Lille says she was informed at 7:52 that the #DA informed her that she had lost her party membership and subsequently her position in the Cape Town council. #DeLille @TeamNews24 De Lille has arrived and the briefing has started.  Patricia #DeLille has arrived for her presser on the #DA's decision to axe her. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/q9PbaM54gC REMINDER: The briefing by De Lille will now start at 12pm.  WATCH: First Take On De Lille: 'The DA Is Alienating Itself From A Young Black Electorate' (via HuffPost SA) The starting time for De Lille's briefing has now been moved to 12pm.  Journalists have heard that Patricia #DeLille's presser to address the #DA's decision to cease her party membership will now begin at 12pm. @TeamNews24 Still waiting on Patricia de Lille to arrive at the briefing venue.  Media still waiting for Patricia #DeLille to arrive to address them on the #DA's decision to cancel her party membership. @TeamNews24 ICYMI: WATCH: DA terminates Patricia De Lille's membership (via SABC) Media waiting for now former Cape Town mayor Patricia #DeLille to address them following the #DA's decision to cease her membership. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/eFPji8w7WZ Patricia #DeLille will address the media at 11:00 at the Cullinan Hotel following the #DA's announcement of the immediate cessation of her membership. @TeamNews24 #DA confirms that deputy mayor Ian Nielson will take over immediately as acting mayor. The City of Cape Town council will elect a new mayor "as soon as possible," the party says. Council must elect a new mayor within 14 days. #DeLille @TeamNews24 ICYMI: The #DA's James Selfe says he would like to think that the issue ends today, "but he doubts it". "I anticipate that there will be some sort of challenge, and we are prepared to meet that challenge." #DeLille @TeamNews24 The DA's official statement on the matter.  We have a commitment to deal with maladministration & misconduct. No matter who is implicated.Our priority now is to restore stability to City govt so that we can continue to provide excellent and responsive services to the people of the City. #deLillehttps://t.co/pHjM9w0Yxp ICYMI: DA kicks De Lille out of party The Democratic Alliance has confirmed the cessation of Cape Town Mayor Patricia De Lille's membership from the party. James Selfe, chairperson of the DA's federal executive, made the announcement at a media briefing in Cape Town on Tuesday. The DA charged De Lille with misconduct earlier this year, following various claims. The embattled mayor survived a motion of no confidence in her in February, but in an internal motion of no confidence against her in April, the party voted to recall her as mayor. The DA cited clause 3.5.1.2 in its constitution, that says if a member publicly declares his or her intention to resign, then their membership ceases immediately.  ICYMI: De Lille to lay complaint over fake social media post Embattled Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille says she is going to lay charges against party members who have shared a fake Auditor General document on social media. News24 reported on Monday that some members of the Democratic Alliance shared an altered Auditor General document on social media, which made adverse claims about De Lille over MyCiTi bus tenders. The post has since been removed. AGSA spokesperson Africa Boso confirmed to News24 that Auditor General Kimi Makwetu did not provide his signature for the document. "The Auditor General South Africa did not sign or know the origins of the document you are enquiring about," Boso told News24 via email. "The AGSA will deal with all matters relating to municipal audits when it tables/releases its general report on the audit results of all the country’s municipalities on 23 May."  ICYMI: AG confirms 'De Lille exposed' post, shared by some DA members, is fake Senior Democratic Alliance members have shared a fake Auditor General document on social media, in which adverse claims were made about embattled Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille. News24 has confirmed that the document, shared by at least two DA members of Parliament on social media, is a forgery. The DA members include deputy chief whip Mike Waters, who is also a deputy federal chairperson of the party, and National Council of Provinces MP Bronwynn Engelbrecht. The social media post in question includes a picture of De Lille and the headline "Patricia de Lille exposed", before it lists alleged breaches De Lille had made, which relate to MyCiTi bus tenders. It lists three alleged contraventions of various municipal laws, including the Municipal Systems Act, and draws the conclusion that "De Lille did not exercise her responsibility" in the procurement process of MyCiTi buses. It is then purportedly signed by Auditor General of South Africa (AGSA) Thembekile "Kimi" Makwetu.  Jump to
                top