The Nelson Mandela Bay special council meeting to hear a motion of no confidence against Mayor Athol Trollip will resume. The previous two sittings descended into chaos and were adjourned. Jump to
                    bottom LATEST: Another motion of no confidence against Athol Trollip The Nelson Mandela Bay special council meeting to hear a motion of no confidence against Mayor Athol Trollip will resume - for the third sitting - at 10:00 on Thursday. The previous two sittings descended into chaos and were adjourned. Speaker Jonathan Lawack announced at the previous sitting that the meeting was permanently adjourned, and that the opposition would have to petition for a new special council meeting to take place. However, the municipality subsequently issued notice to say that the meeting would reconvene on Thursday. The coalition government has had a minority of 59 seats in the 120-seat council since a fallout with the United Democratic Movement. WATCH: Bid to remove Mayor Athol Trollip collapses amid chaos The special council meeting held to remove Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip collapsed on Tuesday and was permanently adjourned. Council Speaker Jonathan Lawack cited disruptive behaviour as the reason for the adjournment and said that ANC and EFF councillors objected to his refusal to allow their barrage of points of order to be heard. The council then degenerated into chaos and the meeting was permanently adjourned.  Nelson Mandela Bay council meeting descends into chaos The special council meeting to hear the six motions brought by the opposition, including the vote of no confidence against Mayor Athol Trollip, collapsed on Thursday morning. Speaker Jonathan Lawack adjourned the meeting after council erupted into chaos following an altercation between EFF leader Zilindile Vena and member of the mayoral committee for roads and transport Rano Kayser (DA). DA leader Mmusi Maimane, who was seated at the back in the public gallery, was also embroiled in the chaos, when he tried to intervene to calm things down. Kayser and Vena returned to the council chambers after a 15-minute adjournment that came about after the opposition, including the ANC, the EFF, the United Front and the UDM, walked out earlier over a disagreement related to the agenda for the special council meeting. Trollip effectively survives motion of no confidence after meeting permanently adjourned Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip has effectively survived a motion of no confidence after a special council meeting to debate it was permanently adjourned on Tuesday morning. The meeting only lasted about an hour and a half before a shouting match ensued in council and the meeting collapsed. Speaker Jonathan Lawack then declared that the meeting was permanently adjourned. Other motions that had been tabled for Tuesday included: Jump to
                top