(Picture: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories 'Mugabe did nothing wrong,' opposition party says as it vows to 'frustrate' Mnangagwa’s election bid A party linked to allies of former president Robert Mugabe has threatened to "frustrate" new president Emmerson Mnangagwa's bid to win elections this year, independent reports say. The National Patriotic Front (NPF) has held well-attended provincial meetings in Midlands, Masvingo and Bulawayo in recent days. Civilian government "We will spoil the meal for Zanu-PF. We know how to frustrate Mnangagwa," top NPF official Jeppy Jaboon told a meeting in Masvingo on Friday. "This time, Mnangagwa will not make it to the presidency," he was quoted as saying by the private Standard newspaper. For more on this story click here Zim: Zanu-PF heavyweights fall in primary elections – reports A number of Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF heavyweights have reportedly fallen by the wayside in the party's primary elections. According to New Zimbabwe.com, President Emmerson Mnangagwa's top adviser Christopher Mutsvangwa and Zanu-PF's national chairperson Oppah Muchinguri were some of those who lost in their constituencies. The report said that unconfirmed results showed that Mutsvangwa was humbled by Langton Mutendreya in Norton while Muchinguri lost to an unknown Joyce Bukuta in her bid to represent Nyanga in the ruling party's women quota. Read more on this story here Mugabe's ex-minister rubbishes claims Mnangagwa is not Zimbabwean Exiled Zimbabwean former minister, Jonathan Moyo, has reportedly rubbished claims that President Emmerson Mnangagwa and Vice-President Constantino Chiwenga are ineligible to lead the country because they are of "foreign origin". This came after the spokesperson for the National Patriotic Front (NPF) party, Jealousy Mbizvo Mawarire, suggested last week that both Mnangagwa and his deputy could not rule the country because they were not Zimbabweans, The Zimbabwe Mail reported. For more on this story click here PICS: Kenya floods kill at least 100, displace over 200 000 At least 100 people have reportedly been killed, while over 200 000 have been displaced by four weeks of floods, landslides and heavy rains in Kenya. A relief organisation, Red Cross, said that the development was a humanitarian disaster, according to BBC. Red Cross said that there were fears about outbreaks of cholera and other waterborne diseases after most of the affected had their homes either swept away or submerged by flood waters. For more on this story click here 'Joyce Banda still under probe,' says Malawi anti-graft body Malawi's anti-corruption agency says that newly-returned former president Joyce Banda was still under investigation over the massive graft scandal that erupted while she was in office. Banda returned to Malawi at the weekend after four years of self-imposed exile, saying she had done nothing wrong and had no fear of being arrested. But Malawi's Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) dismissed claims that she had been cleared of all allegations over the "Cashgate" scandal, in which officials siphoned off millions of dollars of public money. Read more on this story here WATCH: Video of Nigerian musician gifting girlfriend with luxury car goes viral A video of Nigerian musician Davido giving his girlfriend, Chioma Avril Rowland, a Porsche as a birthday gift has set social media abuzz. The world's renowned artist gave his girlfriend the car over the weekend, earning himself some admiration among social media users this week. Watch the video below According to BBC, the luxury car cost 45 million Naira ($124 650). Davido also released a new song titled "Assurance" dedicated to his girlfriend at the event, the report said. For more on this story click here Zim opposition leader Chamisa vows to 'boot out' Chinese investors – reports Zimbabwean Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Alliance leader Nelson Chamisa has reportedly vowed to expel Chinese investors if he wins the up coming elections. Chamisa claimed that the Chinese were "involved in shady deals with the Emmerson Mnangagwa administration". According to NewsZimbabwe.com, Chamisa said this while addressing hundreds of people who gathered for the Workers Day celebrations organised by the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions in Dzivarasekwa, Harare on Tuesday. Read more on this story here     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  