Unathi Obose This busy part of the junction between Mew Way and Steve Biko roads in eNdlovini, is cause of much grief for residents..PHOTO: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Ndlovini informal settlement residents in Khayelitsha have threatened to take to the streets if the City of Cape Town fails to install speed humps on Mew Way Road and build traffic circle on the adjoining Steve Biko Roads. They have described the road as hazardous to the community because of speeding motorists. They also said it’s almost a decade now since they have been pleading with the City to yield to their wishes, but in vain. Buyiswa Tonono, a community leader, said: “It’s been a while requesting for the speed humps since 2011 when MEC for Community Safety, Dan Plato was still a mayor. He promised to install these but nothing has come of it. “I don’t know how many City officials have come to assess the road, but have never come back on their promises.” She said because motorist blatantly ignored the traffic lights on Mew Way Road, a traffic circle to control this behaviour was more needed now than in the past, what with increased vehicle volumes on the intersection­. She added: “I don’t know what the use of the traffic lights there is, because motorists do not obey even the instruction to stop. We need the City to install two or three speed humps and a traffic circle on the corner of Mew Way and Steve Biko roads. I think that will be the best solution.” Tonono said peak hour was when most people were hit by cars. “The morning is when most the people get injured, on their way to and from work in the evening, when there are too many people on the road.” She said even the current councillor knows about their request but he keeps on saying he is waiting on the City to respond. Mavis Mbotheni, a resident, said her child was injured on Mew Way Road after a hit and run accident. “In 2006 my daughter was hit by a car from behind while she was walking on the pavement with her friends and the driver fled the scene. “She lost all her front teeth, and had to be fitted with dentures, but she was lucky to escape with light bruises.” Mbotheni said if its not a head-on collision, it was likely to be a pedestrian hit by a car on the road. “The City must do something before we take to the street because that is the only language the government understands. Because if you ask government officials nicely, they will never attend to it,” she said. Ward 99 councillor Bongile Ngcali confirmed that and said he is waiting for the City to approve a budget for that. “I know that even the residents of M Section(Ndlovini) staged a protest last year, demanding the speed humps. The City conducted a survey on that road and we are for them to approve the budget,” said Ngcali. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  