WATCH: 'I printed more money to save Mugabe from a coup,' says ex-central bank chief Zimbabwe's former central bank governor Gideon Gono says he printed more money during his tenure to prevent a coup by "hungry soldiers". According to the privately owned Standard newspaper, Gono, who spoke during a business conference in Chinhoyi last week, said that he was forced to print more money in a desperate attempt by then president Robert Mugabe's government to prevent a coup by "hungry soldiers". Gono said that although he was aware that the move would trigger hyper-inflation, it had to be done to prevent an insurgence from hungry soldiers. For more on this story click here UPDATED: Mozambique veteran rebel leader Dhlakama dead: party sources Mozambique's veteran rebel leader Afonso Dhlakama, who mixed guerrilla warfare with opposition politics, has died aged 65, party sources said on Thursday. Several sources in Dhlakama's Renamo party told AFP that Dhlakama passed away after an unconfirmed heart attack, with local television stations also reporting the death. For more on this story click here Mnangagwa slams use of police in 'chaotic Zanu-PF primaries' – report Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly condemned the use of police officers and other security agencies by some aspiring candidates in the just ended Zanu-PF primary elections. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Mnangagwa said that the use of law enforcement agencies for political party purposes other than to maintain law and order had no place in his new government. The report said that some police officers acted as polling officers during the elections. Read more on this story here Zim journos arrested ahead of World Press Freedom Day As the world marked Press Freedom Day on Thursday, news emerged that two independent journalists have been arrested in Zimbabwe. NewsDay Editor Wisdom Mdzungairi and reporter Desmond Chingarande were arrested and charged on Wednesday with contravening a section of the Children’s Act, their lawyer said. They were released on the same day and told to wait for police to tell them when they’re ready to take them to court. Unnecessary arrest "They were formally charged for contravening Section 5, Subsection 5 of the Children's Act. It's alleged that they published or revealed the identity of a child in one of their reports that they made some time ago," Jeremiah Bamu told News24. Read more on this story here Mnangagwa 'lying about a new dispensation', says MDC's Chamisa Zimbabwean Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Alliance leader Nelson Chamisa has reportedly hit out at President Emmerson Mnangagwa saying he was not different from his predecessor Robert Mugabe. Mnangagwa took over as the country's leader after Mugabe stepped down from power in November, following a military intervention "targeting criminals around him". According to NewZimbabwe.com, Chamisa said that Mnangagwa and his administration were not a new dispensation. For more on this story click here Teachers flee, schools close in Kenya with al-Shabab attacks Deadly attacks by the al-Shabaab extremist group targeting non-Muslim teachers in Kenya have caused hundreds of schools near the Somali border to shut down as teachers flee for their lives. Analysts say it is leaving local youth susceptible for recruitment to the al-Qaeda-linked group. Dozens of teachers have been sleeping in a union boardroom for weeks as they protest the lack of security and face tear gas from police. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  