Christina Pitt Dutch arms dealer Augustinus Kouwenhoven is seen leaving the Cape Town Magistrate's Court. (Christina Pitt, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Extradition papers for Dutch arms dealer Augustinus Kouwenhoven have arrived from the Netherlands, the Cape Town Magistrate's Court heard on Friday. Kouwenhoven, who was convicted of selling firearms to former Liberian president Charles Taylor, was arrested in Fresnaye in December 2017. He faces a 19-year jail sentence in the Netherlands for crimes against humanity. On Friday, the 75-year-old's advocate, Anton Katz SC, requested more time to review the extradition papers. READ: Man found guilty of 'war crimes' was granted SA visa, court hears Katz told the court that Kouwenhoven had a pending Western Cape High Court application against the Department of Justice, the Minister of Police and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), in which he claimed he had been arrested unlawfully. "Until the application is finalised, it would be fruitless to continue with trial [in the Magistrate's Court]," Katz submitted. Magistrate Vusi Mhlanga disagreed and said it would be unwise to "hold the proceedings ransom". Mhlanga postponed proceedings to June 25. A frail-looking Kouwenhoven arrived at court in a wheelchair and was accompanied by a carer. He was unable to attend his last court appearance in April because he was recovering after his leg was broken. Kouwenhoven is under house arrest in his upmarket Bantry Bay home and is required to report to the Sea Point police station twice a day. In light of his medical state, his bail conditions have been amended. He is now required to report to the police three times a week, instead of daily, and is allowed to leave home for consultations with his doctor. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  