Jan Gerber General Godfrey Lebeya has been appointed as the new head of the Hawks. (Picture: Theana Calitz) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Police, Francois Beukman, has welcomed the appointment of General Godfrey Lebeya as the new head of the Directorate of Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks). On Thursday, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane announced that Cabinet had approved the appointment of Lebeya as the national head for the Hawks. ALSO READ: Godfrey Lebeya appointed as new Hawks boss Lebeya will be taking over from Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata, who was acting Hawks head. Matakata was appointed in April last year when former police minister Fikile Mbalula dismissed the controversial Berning Ntlemeza, after the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria found that his appointment was unlawful. Ntlemeza's appeal in this matter was unsuccessful. "General Lebeya is a good and considered choice. We believe he has the necessary qualifications and experience to lead the Hawks in a new era, where corruption-busting will be the number one priority," Beukman said in a statement. Refocus the Hawks Beukman emphasised that Lebeya had previously served the South African Police Service (SAPS) with distinction and had the right police credentials to make a success of his new appointment. The committee wants Lebeya to refocus the Hawks on transnational crime, the organised drug and illegal firearms trade, and crime syndicates in the economic sector. ALSO READ: Hawks to have head by June – Cele Beukman said that the amendment of the current SAPS Act was now critical, because the Hawks should have a separate budget vote to strengthen their independence and effectiveness. He also praised Matakata for the "good work" she had done over the past 18 months. "We wish her well and trust that she will continue to contribute in the law enforcement community," Beukman said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  