Kaveel Singh Police react after crowd violence during the Nedbank Cup Semi Final match between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars at Moses Mabhida Stadium. (Anesh Debiky, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Durban magistrate has lambasted three men, arrested in connection with violence that broke out two weeks ago during a Nedbank Cup semi-final at Moses Mabhida Stadium, saying that they had damaged the reputation of the city and the country. "Sport lovers everywhere say they will not attend sporting functions because of what they witnessed at Moses Mabhida Stadium on that fateful day," Magistrate Mahomed Motala said when the three men appeared in the Durban Magistrate's Court. "You must give careful thought [to] what your actions have resulted in. Reflect on the damage done [to] our country and our city." The men had indicated through their lawyers that they intended pleading guilty. They were granted R1 000 bail each and will appear again on May 25. READ: 3 arrested in connection with Moses Mabhida Stadium violence Fans invaded the pitch following the Kaizer Chiefs' 2-0 loss to the Free State Stars earlier in April. Damage Police had to use tear gas and stun grenades to disperse the unruly fans, who could be seen hurling chairs and beating security officials. Footage of the incident was widely circulated and criticised. Siposenkosi Knowledge Memela, 35, a Savanna Park resident and truck driver, appeared in court together with John Sibongiseni Khumalo, 29, the rank manager of Klaarwater Taxi Association, and Khwezilomso Madiba, 35, a Bizana taxi driver. A fourth accused, Phelelani Jojisa, 34, who was arrested first, is also expected to appear alongside the three men on the next date. He has been charged with pitch invasion and malicious damage to property. READ: KZN police appeal for statements from victims of Moses Mabhida Stadium violence Madiba is accused of assaulting a security guard during the incident while Mamela is accused of damaging one of the television cameras. Khumalo has been charged with public violence, malicious damage to property and pitch invasion. There was a moment of laughter in the court when it was alleged that he was one of the men who had paraded around the stadium with a SuperSport camera. "If you want to take selfies, use your own camera," Motala quipped. During a press briefing last week, eThekwini Metro Mayor Zandile Gumede said the damage amounted to a whopping R2.6m.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  