Zenande Potwana (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two years after her son was shot dead and seven high school students were injured in a police shoot-out in Nyanga East, Nyameka Potwana says she still has no substantial information about the murder. Her son Zenande, who was 19, was shot and killed in 2016 while at a house party with friends, while celebrating the end of the school term. He had been shot in the head. "I was woken up by gunshots coming from outside my house at 2:20am on 26 June 2016," Potwana told GroundUp. "When I got up and looked out the window, I saw a [bread delivery] truck, a police van and security guards firing shots at some youths. "I immediately phoned my son, as they were having a party a few houses away at a friend's shack in our street. I told him that whatever they do, they must stay indoors because there was shooting outside. He said: 'Don't worry mom … We heard the gunshots … We've locked ourselves inside.' That was the last time I spoke to him." After she made the call she heard voices outside her door. She looked out of the window and saw two youths hiding under her window. She asked what they were doing and they responded that they were looking for their guns because they were involved in the shootout. Then they ran away. The gunshots continued, she said. After the shooting eventually stopped, someone knocked at her door and a resident screamed that the children had been shot. "The police and security had shot at the shack the children were partying in, thinking that the youths were hiding in there," said Potwana. Siyasanga Khontyo, whose mother owns the shack where the party was held, sustained three gunshot wounds - to his shoulder, his waist and his knee. He survived, but still has a bullet lodged in his shoulder. He alleged that the police were the ones who shot at the shack. "Since the incident, I have been going to the police station non-stop to get information about the case. The last time I went was three weeks ago … I was told that I would receive a phone call … I am still waiting," said Siyasanga's mother, Noxolo Khontyo. "Either a policeman or security guard shot [Zenande]," Potwana added. "I remember that night, I saw one of the policemen picking up gun shells from the scene and he was not [from the] forensics [unit] because forensics had not arrived yet. I asked why he was doing that and he did not answer. My mistake was not checking his name tag. But I wrote all the information in my statement when I opened a case at the Nyanga East police station." Provincial police spokesperson Frederick Van Wyk said: "The investigation into the case had been finalised and the docket booked to [the] senior state prosecutor last month for a decision to determine whether to charge or not." He gave no further details. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  