Robyn Lucas Hanna Sandover. (Photo: Facebook/Hannah Sandover) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A teenage girl has been convicted of wasting police time
after falsely accusing her ex-boyfriend of drugging and raping her when he
refused to get back together. Hannah Sandover (18), from Wiltshire in England, apparently
told her friend her ex, whom she’d been dating for a year, had forced himself on
her while they were in the backseat of a car during a trip, reports Metro
News. Her concerned friend then went to the police station and
the teen later gave a formal statement to local police. “He became forceful and pinned me down. I kept telling him
to stop,” Hannah’s statement read. “I think he’d drugged the water I was drinking.” The teen also claimed one of her friends was seated in the
front of the car while the incident took
place, but was listening to music and therefore
couldn’t hear what was happening, reports
Daily
Mail. But Hannah’s lies were revealed after she underwent a
physical examination. Mirror
News
reports that her family then questioned her story, and the teen later said
she’s made it up. Hannah also admitted to a charge of wasting police time at the magistrate’s court in Salisbury. “Miss Sandover is extremely lucky that she didn't get
charged with perverting the course of justice, only due to her age and the fact
she has no previous convictions,” prosecutor Ryan Seneviratine said. “Her ex-boyfriend has said his confidence in approaching
girls has been completely ruined. “He was kept in custody for five-and-a-half hours and
underwent intimate tests. “And all because she wanted to get back at him. “She had numerous time to say the allegations were lies,
but she didn't.” Hannah’s lawyer, Moses Tawo, revealed she didn’t say that she
was lying sooner because she was afraid. "She was too scared to admit she’d been lying,” Moses
said. "The only person she told the story to was her friend.
She never meant for it to be taken to the police and couldn't tell me why she’d
told lies. "She’s faced some health issues, and when the only
relationship she had with anyone ended she panicked, which she now shows
remorse for." Hannah was released on bail and will be sentenced on 8 June. Sources: metro.co.uk, dailymail.co.uk, mirror.co.uk  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  