Duncan Alfreds This recycling bin is designed for paper. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Oil company Total South Africa has removed recycling bins at the Summerstrand service station in Port Elizabeth. The company cited abuse as the reason for the removal of the bins and added that the area had become a health risk. "It worked well and things started falling apart because people started abusing the facility," Total Media Relations representative Nadia Vosloo told News24. She said the recycling bins were part of a national programme and that there were still some facilities left in the country. "It's been a programme that we launched some years ago – maybe six years ago. I'm speaking under correction, but there are probably six to 10 [facilities] left countrywide," said Vosloo. Complaints The company said the facility in Summerstrand had become a dumping ground. "People have been dumping items such as garden refuse, unwanted furniture, clothing and food... bins are clearly marked otherwise, and it is for this reason that the decision to close this facility has been taken," said Total Corporate Communications and Marketing manager Reina Cullinan. Vosloo said that there were also complaints from nearby residents. "As far as I know, there have been complaints over the years and we've also had some compliments." She highlighted an old age home nearby that used the facility to recycle items and said that the closure would create some inconvenience for people. "The site and facility are not huge, but I imagine there would be some inconvenience for people to get to a legal dumping site." The Nelson Mandela Bay Integrated Development Plan highlights plans to build refuse transfer recycling stations in Ward 36 for which R3m is budgeted as well as a recycling project in Seaview, among other recycling projects. Vosloo argued that the closure of the Total facility would not have a major impact on recycling in the city. "I don't think there'll be that much of an impact with the closure of our facility, but I would imagine there are dumping grounds that are legal."  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  