Jeanette Chabalala (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Department of Health has announced that it has allocated and offered placements to medical interns and community service doctors who have studied in South African universities. The students were eligible for placement for the 2018 annual cycle, which was due to start on January 1, 2018, it said in a statement issued on Friday. The department said it had placed more than 1 500 interns and 1 300 community service doctors. Those who became eligible between January 1 and April 2018 had been processed and their employment contracts were being finalised by the provincial departments of health, the department said. "Those South African students who studied at South African universities who are repeating blocks and medical interns who were not eligible by May 2018 will be allocated during the mid-year cycle and start their employment from July 1 2018. "The South African-born citizens who studied Medicine abroad and passed the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) Board Exams will be accommodated once a policy has been finalised on graduates with qualifications that are not prescribed by the HPCSA has been finalised." The department said it was finalising a circular which would provide some clear guidelines and procedures to be followed when allocating the medical internships and community service. This includes appointments for permanent residents, refugees and all other non-South Africans. It said guidelines explaining the allocation rules and project plan for the 2019 allocation cycle were currently being discussed with stakeholders. Registration would open in June and would be accompanied by roadshows at universities and colleges. Medical students and members of the public with enquiries relating to the allocation of medical interns and community service were asked to contact the helpdesk on 087 012 5082 or send an email to icsp@dhmis.org. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  