EXCLUSIVE: It's impossible for Zanu-PF to change its long held tradition of vote rigging, says MDC leader Zimbabwe's Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Alliance leader, Nelson Chamisa, has criticised President Emmerson Mnangagwa for "failing" to address electoral reforms less than three months before a watershed election. In an interview with News24, Chamisa said it was impossible for the ruling party to "change its long held tradition of vote rigging". Chamisa said that there were a number of issues that were still to be resolved before the country could be declared fit to hold a free and fair election. Zimbabwe was set to go to the polls before the end of August. Read more on this story here 'I don't bleach my skin': says Zim VP, after becoming the butt of jokes Zimbabwe's vice president, Constantino Chiwenga, says he suffers from a skin disease that first surfaced last year as he and other military commanders planned Operation Restore Legacy, the army takeover that preceded Robert Mugabe’s resignation. Chiwenga, the former defence forces chief, dismissed claims that his lighter complexion and the pale patches visible on his hands are a result of him using skin lightening creams. Whole body affected "It was during (the military operation) that I fell ill. I had this skin disease that affected my whole body from beneath my feet to my back and the journalists started saying I was using skin lightening creams but that was not the case. I was sick," he said in quotes and a video clip carried by the state-run Chronicle. For more on this story click here 'I'm sorry to those I may have hurt with my joke,' says MDC leader Chamisa Zimbabwe's opposition leader Nelson Chamisa has "sincerely apologised" for his gender insensitive political banter that caused social media outrage this week. Chamisa came under fire after he joked that he would give his sister, 18, to Emmerson Mnangagwa if the Zimbabwean leader won the forthcoming elections. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Chamisa said this while addressing his Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party supporters in the United Kingdom. "If Mnangagwa wins 5% in a free election, I will give him my sister. I have a sister who just turned 18 and looking for a husband. "I am betting on this because I know it won’t happen," Chamisa was quoted as saying. Read more on this story here PICS: 'The future is bright,' says MDC leader Chamisa after meeting UK's Boris Johnson Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party leader Nelson Chamisa has met with British Foreign Affairs Minister Boris Johnson in London. Chamisa told News24 that he had a "fruitful" discussion with Johnson. "I have just had a great meeting with British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson. Zimbabwe-UK relations on a fantastic path. The future is bright," said Chamisa. Chamisa urged the Theresa May government to reconsider its planned new policy on Zimbabwe, saying that the new policy should come into effect after a "successful free and fair election". For more on this story click here Mozambique ex-rebel leader Dhlakama laid to rest Accompanied by a military gun salute, Mozambique laid to rest rebel supremo and opposition leader Afonso Dhlakama in his remote birth village on Thursday after his unexpected death threw the country's peace process into uncertainty. Thousands of mourners attended the funeral in the country's central Sofala province, a heartland of support for the Renamo group that he led for nearly 40 years. Dhlakama, who died of a suspected heart attack last week aged 65, was buried in a private family cemetery in the village of Magunde. Read more on this story here PICS: Kenya dam burst 'a disaster' as toll hits 38 A dam burst its banks in Kenya's Rift Valley, killing at least 38 people and forcing hundreds from their homes, officials said on Thursday. Water burst through the banks of the Patel Dam in Solai, Nakuru County, on Wednesday night, sweeping away hundreds of homes, including those on the expansive Nyakinyua Farm, which borders the reservoir. See pictures below "We have recovered 38 bodies and many people are missing. It is a disaster," said Rongai police chief Joseph Kioko. Almost an entire village was swept by silt and water, said Gideon Kibunja the county police chief in charge of criminal investigations. For more on this story click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  