Velani Ludidi The ANC Women’s League held a memorial service for the late Edna Molewa, minister of Water and Environmental Affairs, in Lwandle on Sunday. PHOTO: velani ludidi Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The late Edna Molewa, minister of Water and Environmental Affairs, was described as an “outstanding” person at a memorial service held at Nomzamo Community Hall on Sunday (30 September). The 61-year-old passed away at a Pretoria hospital on Saturday 22 September, after falling ill during an official trip to China. The memorial service was organised by the ANC Women’s League, although a handful of men also attended. Nancy Sihlwayi, former Eastern Cape Social Development minister, described Molewa as an outstanding person who respected the ANC and projected its values. Molewa’s untimely death sent shock waves through the country and her colleagues in various spheres of government were affected by her passing. “She feared no-one and challenged everything that seemed not out of line with the party’s processes,” said Sihlwayi. “She once came to the Eastern Cape to sort out a challenge we were facing. She held a meeting from 06:00 to 18:00, and we came out united. Before her death, Molewa also called for unity within the party with the 2019 elections fast approaching. Unity is not coming out of the conference and only works with the people you went in with. That is not unity. We must work to win back this province [the Western Cape].” Sihlwayi called on ANC members to be strong as the party faces attacks from what she described as “capitalists against land expropriation without compensation”. She said the rise of petrol prices is capitalists fighting ANC policies adopted at the party’s last conference. Belinda Landingwe, ANC Women’s League convener, said Molewa laid a foundation that the organisation should follow. “She showed us that the ANC can do more because all the work she did, she excelled at,” Landingwe said. “We must build strong branches, not just for the elections but to champion issues related to women and children.” V Molewa’s official state funeral will be held on Saturday 6 October. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  