Andile Sithole Residents outside Verulam court. PHOTO: ANDILE SITHOLE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A MAN charged with the murder of a Verulam resident appeared at the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Monday, October 15. It’s alleged that Mthandeni Hlongwa was the driver of a Quantum taxi that allegedly knocked down Harichund Kandhailal (64) on Ireland Street in Verulam on September 29. It is also alleged that the suspect did not stop at the crime scene to assist the injured victim. During his bail hearing on Monday, the court heard that the accused is self-employed and owns flats to let in Waterloo. The accused is facing a case of murder. The deceased was exiting a spares shop carrying a gallon of oil, he stood on the pavement waiting to cross the road. The taxi was parked at the parking lot near the shop when the driver allegedly took off and drove over the victim. Spokesperson for the residents, Mr Singh, said the case has sparked public outcry. Residents carrying placards held a protest outside court to oppose bail. During the cross examination, the accused told the court that he would plead not guilty on the charge. He also told the court that he owns a combi that operates merely on special occasions. In his affidavit read out in court to convince the magistrate to grant him bail, the accused said he has not been outside of KZN and does not have a passport. Head of Reaction Unit South Africa Prem Balram said in a statement: “Members of Reaction Unit South Africa were dispatched to the scene after receiving several calls from passing motorists requesting assistance for the critically injured man. “Upon arrival, medics attempted to stabilise the pedestrian however, due to the extent of his injuries, he died at the scene.” The matter was adjourned for October 25. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  