Mxolisi Mngadi Collin Pillay in the Verulam Family Court. (Mxolisi Mngadi, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The bail application of the man accused of killing a Phoenix mother and her two daughters was postponed after it emerged that an additional charge - that of robbery with aggravating circumstances - was added to his list of charges. Prosecutor Rakesh Singh told the Verulam Family Court on Wednesday that Collin Pillay, 45, had been charged with robbery in addition to three counts of premeditated murder. Pillay is accused of the murder and robbery of Jane Govender, 44, and the murder of her daughters Rackelle, 16, and Denisha, 22. Govender's husband found the bodies of his wife and Rackelle on the morning of September 21. Denisha's body was later found in a cupboard. They were murdered at home in Tashmeer Mansions in Phoenix. Read: KZN triple murder: Family members sob as bodies removed from Phoenix home On Wednesday, Pillay's lawyer Chris Gounden asked Magistrate Ncumisa Gcolotela for a short adjournment so that he could consult with Pillay. He explained that he was not aware of the robbery charge when he previously told the court he was ready to proceed with the bail application.  "The robbery count was not brought to our attention. May the matter stand down so that I can take further instructions?" he asked. After about 30 minutes, Gounden returned and said he only managed to "consult briefly with the accused", adding that there were "no proper consultation facilities" at the court's holding cells. He asked for a postponement. The case was postponed to October 11 for the continuation of the bail application. Pillay is in custody at Westville Prison. During a previous court appearance, Pillay had an anxiety attack before he entered the dock and the matter stood down so he could get medical treatment. Read more: KZN triple murder: Accused 'faints' while in holding cells Paramedics assisted him. According to the State, he refused to be taken to hospital for further medical treatment. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  