Thami Ka-Nkosi “TRADITIONAL healers don’t use people’s body parts to make muthi. That’s witchcraft,” says Thulani Zulu, a KZN traditional healer. Zulu has slammed this myth about Sangomas after a man was arrested in Margate this week for allegedly trying to sell human body parts. “Traditional healers don’t harm, but rather save lives. “We don’t want to be associated with such acts. We want to spread a strong message that we are fighting these barbaric actions because they taint our image,’ said Zulu. According to Zulu, communities should work together in fighting killings. “We invite all other healers to join us in the fight,’ he said. Attacks on people are on the rise mainly with “albinism” linked to a growing demand for body parts prized in “black magic” to bring good fortune. A 34-year-old man was arrested on Sunday, October, 7 for being in possession of human body parts and appeared at the Ramsgate Magistrate Court on Tuesday, October 9. The case was postponed until October 16 for further investigation. According to a statement issued by police, they received information about a man selling body parts in Margate. Police investigations led them to Marine Drive where the suspect was spotted seated in a vehicle. The police officers approached the man clad in a traditional outfit and requested to search the vehicle. During the search they discovered a bucket with a human skull, hand, torso and other body parts that were cut into small pieces. The man confirmed to police that it was indeed human body parts and he informed police that he used these items to heal people. It is alleged that the suspect had been looking for buyers and approached a number of traditional healers around the Emanguzi area. Traditional healers in the area became concerned when the man told them that he was in possession of human body parts, which were on sale for as little as R4 000, and they brought their concerns to the attention of police. At this stage it is unknown as to whom the body parts belong and a DNA analysis will confirm if the body parts belong to more than one person. The suspect will remain in custody as police investigations are continuing to ascertain if the suspect can be linked to other crimes in the province.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.