Sesona Ngqakamba Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The power to appoint and remove the head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) is bestowed on the president. But the advisory panel President Cyril Ramaphosa appointed to identify candidates and conduct interviews for the position, has decided to take different – and unprecedented – route. The position will be advertised in the media and the process that will follow will be similar to the one used when making a judicial appointment. The panel met for the first time on Monday to confirm the its mandate and establish how it will go about carrying out its work. According to Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko, the panel agreed on a framework to ensure that worthy people shortlisted were appropriately vetted before recommendations were sent to the president for consideration. "The panel unanimously decided that interested persons and organisations will be invited to identify to the panel, persons who should be considered for appointment through an advertisement in the media calling for nominations/applications," Diko said. The panel also decided on the time frames for work to be completed. By October 23, invitations for applications and nominations for fit persons with legal qualifications must be undertaken. The advertisement would be published in the media, Diko said. The closing date for applications and nominations will be November 2 and shortlisting and interviews will begin on November 5 and end by November 23. Diko said assessments by the panel and the finalisation of their recommendations would take place from November 23 to 30, following the shortlisting of candidates. She said the panel agreed to submit names of shortlisted candidates to Ramaphosa by December 7. Among those on the panel, chaired by Energy Minister Jeff Radebe, is Auditor-General of SA Thembekile Makwetu and General Council of the Bar of South Africa representative, advocate Barry Roux. The panel is to complete its work within a timeline that allows Ramaphosa to comply with a deadline set by the Constitutional Court to appoint a new National Director of Public Prosecutions. The court gave Ramaphosa 90 court days after making its ruling on August 13. At the time, the Constitutional Court ruled that the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as NPA head was unconstitutional and invalid. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  