Rebone Tau -MyNews24 Timothy Omotoso. (Photo: Lulama Zenzile) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Omotoso case makes one reflect on the
TB Joshua saga where South Africans die in Nigeria when the Synagogue Church of
All Nations collapsed in 2014. At the time, I was the chairperson of international
relations of the ANCYL national task team and I led the ANCYL delegation to
visit the survivors at the Steve Biko Academic Hospital. We must never forget how the church treated
South African government officials after the collapse of the building. I don’t
remember seeing men, I only saw women when we arrived at the hospital to see
how the survivors were doing and to wish them a speedy recovery. One would like to agree with Minister of
Women Bathabile Dlamini that women are found in these churches because of
poverty, as they go to church with the hope of receiving prayers from these
fly-by-night con-artist pastors in order to have a better life. The issues of these churches being
regulated needs to be at the top of Cabinet's agenda. We cannot continue as if
it’s business as usual, more opportunities must be created for women as they
are more vulnerable and end up going to church with the hope that their lives
will be better. We have seen in some churches how people
are made to drink petrol and eat grass. It is clear that people have been
brainwashed into thinking what they are doing is right. We can no longer sit
back and allow these fly-by-night pastors to do as they wish in the name of
them being “men of God”. They are in business trying to make a living for
themselves at the expense of vulnerable women. Not only are women raped by the fly-by-night
pastors, we also have women who are raped by fly-by-night sangomas. Women are
not safe at all, as the people who will pray or give them herbs are taking
advantage of them because they want a better life to provide for their
children, mainly in single parent homes where the father is absent. It is
important that fathers become responsible and start being there for their
daughters and giving their daughters love. It is clear that when young women
call these perverts “daddy or papa”, they are seeing a father figure in them
and they use this to their advantage. Lastly, we should also welcome the good
work that is being done by Minister Dlamini, as moving forward, the department
will embark on a process of having public hearings, and will also be working
with other departments to try and find solutions to the problem that we are
facing as a nation, indeed Minister Dlamini is not sleeping on the job. She is
visible and, on the ground, engaging with South Africans when it comes to
Gender Based Violence. It shows she has a passion for women’s issues, and for
the first time since the Ministry was formed, we have a minister that is
visible and active when it comes to the daily struggles of women. - Tau is a former member of the ANCYL national task team and writes in her personal capacity. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  