Vincent Phahlane Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  WHILE marriage can be a wonderful and
fulfilling experience, no lifelong commitment is likely to run smoothly at all
times. Life can be full of ups and downs which can sometimes challenge the
strength of your marriage. Marriages get strained for a number of reasons,
where arguments erupt out of nowhere and get exhausting. A strained marriage is
caused by a breakdown in communication. HOW TO HANDLE A STRAINED MARRIAGE Life coach Lifi Tlhaka from Burgersfort,
Limpopo, says it’s a number of issues that lead to a strained marriage. He says
communication, financial problems, in-laws involvement and decisionmaking are
some of the common issues. “When couples grow apart, they no longer see the
best in each other. It may be that calling and checking on your partner happens
out of obligation as opposed to out of love. When one would rather spend time
with friends than with his or her partner, then there’s a problem,” he says. He
advises that there is actually a lot that can save the marriage to avoid being
strenuous and handle it better. “Understand your own negative attitude in the
marriage and the damage it inflicts on your relationship. Also initiate contact
if a relationship has become tense, be proactive in setting things right,” says
Lifi. He adds that sometimes it is about forgiveness of any situation that is
being encountered in the marriage. “We all make mistakes. Leave the door open
for transgressors to make amends. When you are wrong, don’t avoid saying you
are sorry,” says the life coach. “Be sorry for the pain you have caused your
loved one. To save your marriage, set the stage for reconciliation.” Lifi says
in a marriage couples need to accept the situation. “There is little a couple
can change. Be welcoming and gracious, and prevent a situation where problems
escalate,” he says. COMMON CAUSE Lifi explains common causes that can strain
your marriage. “Finances can easily become a source of stress and worry in your
marriage. In difficult economic circumstances, couples can have worries about
employment, bond repayments, bills, school fees and healthcare. The resulting
stress and strain can impact on both individuals, making the marriage to be
under pressure,” he says. Lifi says it is important to be able to discuss
financial matters with one another in a supportive and constructive manner in
order to be able to manage them in the best way possible. PARENTHOOD According to an online article by Catholic
Marriage Care Service, having children can be one of the most wonderful
experiences in life. However, parenthood can also put a strain on a marriage. “Deciding
when to have children can be difficult for couples. One of you may not feel
ready to commit to having children early in your marriage or may want to wait
until a later stage for a variety of reasons such as career prospects,” he
says. “Parenthood brings with it a change in lifestyle. In addition to the joys
of having a baby, parenthood can involve sleepless nights, concerns about
feeding and managing a baby which can all be a shock to the system for
couples.” DON’T AVOID SIGNS Lifi warns that the isolation of one from
another or when their presence starts to annoy you, can be a signal to a change
of behavioural patterns. “Some couples would say ‘we used to go shopping
together; now one prefers just to shop alone or we used to do household chores
or even bath together and all of a sudden, somebody no longer feels like it’,”
he says. “One needs to do some self-introspection and take stock of the current
situation. Remember that most people won’t even notice that you are struggling
or your marriage is strained. You are the one who will sometimes have to
swallow your pride and go knock on doors that can help save what is left of
your marriage.” GET HELP Lifi says it is important for people not to
ignore the advice of their marriage counsellors. “It’s more like consulting a
medical practitioner after experiencing some health challenges, after you are
diagnosed and given the medication, the call is with you whether to take the
medication,” he explains. “Marriage counsellors as well will give you solutions
to your problem, whether that will work for you, the other 50 percent of the
answer is dependent on your application. “Seek help, get mentors or people who
speak to you guys from time to time. Always avoid running to your respective
relatives to tell them of your every problem. Always get professional help.” USEFUL CONTACTS The Family Life Centre 011 788 4784  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  