Thami Ka-Nkosi PHOTO: THAMI KA-NKOSIThe dedicated committee at LSC SPCA. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Lower South Coast SPCA has been at the forefront of not only preventing cruelty to animals, but also assisting some of the most disadvantaged rural areas to maintain a healthy and animal-loving society. After the resignation of its last manager, the SPCA committee has taken over the duties of the organisation. Chairman Scott Kvalsvig said at a committee meeting held at the SPCA offices on Tuesday, October 9: “We cannot afford a new manager.” The staggering number of cases from 2017 until now has certainly shown that the Lower South Coast SPCA is the preferred animal welfare organisation on the South Coast. “We need community support and we want to reach out to everyone — people are welcome to visit our offices,” Kvalsvig said. All ten committee members have various expertise, ranging from animal behaviour specialists to finance. Community members are urged to join the High Five Club for R50 per month and stand a chance of winning between R5 000 and R50 000. Businesses can sponsor a kennel for R200 a month, this will allow you to have sponsor’s plaque on the kennel. Kvalsvig also thanked Wolf security for installing CCTV cameras and sensors following recent after-hour break-ins at the SPCA. From its humble beginnings with a single kennel block and office, the Lower South Coast SPCA is today a beehive of activity consisting of 160 dog kennels, cattery, administrative and inspectorate offices, and a fully-fledged animal hospital. The Lower South Coast SPCA has had to deal with exceptional growth in the number of animals requiring assistance, be it from the decline in the economy to the renewed focus on animal welfare of the South Coast by the LSC SPCA management and committee through its mission to educate, assist and enforce. Locals are urged to show their support for the wonderful work being done by the SPCA in a variety of ways, including donations and animal food. For further information on how you can donate or show your support, please contact the LSC SPCA at 039 312 0962 or 083 222 6355. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  