Reporter Nelson Mandela Bay's Executive Mayor Councillor Mongameli Bobani.Photo:SUPPLIED Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories MOTORISTS who are not fit to drive or who drive unroadworthy vehicles and disregard the rules of the road will soon feel the heat. This was the warning issued by Nelson Mandela Bay Executive Mayor, Councillor Mongameli Bobani, when he officially launched the start of Transport Month at a massive road block along Uitenhage Road on October 2. The mayor joined municipal traffic officers in the early morning traffic rush road block, during which a number of cars were stopped and inspected and fines were issued to those who were found to be on the wrong side of the law. A total of 14 warrants to the value of R9 450 were issued during the official launch of Transport Month. Bobani called on all drivers and road users to work towards realising safe roads in Nelson Mandela Bay. “We are launching Transport Month just a month before the start of our official summer season. Transport Month law enforcement and awareness programmes will be used as a build-up towards a safe summer season. We want Nelson Mandela Bay to be the one of the safest cities in the 2018 Summer Season. Cooperation with residents and drivers, especially those who deal with public transport, will build a solid foundation to achieve this,” said Bobani. Nelson Mandela Bay Traffic and Licensing Superintendent, Livingston Simakuhle, urged motorists to come forward to check their outstanding warrants, as they would be arrested when caught at roadblocks. “The main aim of this initiative was to formally launch the month of October as Transport Month. We will focus on all modes of transport, including bicycles. “We are looking at road safety and whether the motorists are compliant with the rules of the road. Today (October 2) we checked if the motorists were in possession of the necessary documents, and public transport is roadworthy. “It is appalling to find huge numbers of drivers driving without driver’s licences, as this poses a risk to the general public,” said Simakuhle. Statistics on the October 2 roadblock issued by the NMB Municipality’s Traffic Department indicate that 17 summonses were issued for unlicensed drivers, 13 summonses were issued for unlicensed motor vehicles, while a total of seven summonses were issued for vehicles without number plates. These roadblocks will continue across the city for the October month and beyond. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  