Teboho Setena The incomplete and empty shell of the facility which is meant to house a small-scale piggery project in the Felloane Trust in Thaba Nchu. The bricks are crumbling and those who were supposed to benefit from it are in dire straits, with labourers apparently waiting for payment. (Teboho Setena, Express) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Money that the Mangaung Metro Municipality invested to set
up a small-scale economic empowerment piggery in Thaba Nchu's Felloane Trust
seems to be destined to go to waste. The municipality plans to appoint an architect to design a
new plan to complete the failed piggery initiative, aimed at empowering men and
women trading with pigs in the village. A project manager will subsequently also be appointed to
complete this project, known as the Namatsegang Piggery Project. It is believed that the Mangaung Metro had invested R1
million for the construction of a fully-fledged facility. It is meant to uplift 21 beneficiaries presently trading
informally. The Mangaung Metro's executive mayor, Olly Mlamleli,
announced on 23 October in her mayoral report the plan to appoint a project
manager and architect to set up a fully-fledged piggery project. The piggery initiative is part of the city council's rural
development economic strategy and is funded through its Economic and Rural
Development Directo­rate. Legal disputes, financial constraints The contractor abruptly stopped work in June 2017, allegedly
due to dire financial constraints. The company that received the tender for the construction of
the piggery is owned by Tebogo Maseme, believed to be the managing director of
the construction company. When the contractor reportedly abandoned work in mid-June
2017, building material was apparently left to rot in the sun. It has since emerged that construction of the facility was
apparently halted due to legal disputes and unpaid monies to seven labourers
who were temporarily employed. "The construction of the piggery unit at Felloane
Village is on hold due to legal dispute and financial hiccups," said
Mlamleli. "This project will, however, be completed through the
appointment of an architect and project manager from the panel of services. "Service providers will be required to sub-contract the
cooperative (17 women and four men) as part of empo­werment." All the beneficiaries of the piggery project have been left
in despair after the contractor abandoned construction work. Allegations Maseme would since not deny or confirm these allegations
directed to him via media enquiries over monies owed to the seven labourers. The roof of the piggery facility remains intact, while work
to complete the floor of the internal structure is unfinished. Bricks in the walls are gradually crumbling and apparently
threatening to fall anytime soon. The story of the unfinished piggery project came to light
after some beneficiaries had lamented in the media about their frustration
about not getting any response from the municipality's authority. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  