Andile Sithole THE DA has condemned alleged anti-Indian comments made by KZN premier Willies Mchunu at a debate during Heritage Day celebrations in the provincial legislature last week. The DA, in a statement sent to the media, asked Mchunu to apologise for the alleged anti-India comments. In a recording Mchunu is heard saying: “Just look at history, you tell us about the nation of the Indian people being brought here to South Africa, which is true. “But you then claim land for them as if there were no people who were removed from that land before those who were put in there.” The DA claimed that Mchunu said, “the Indians are not part of South Africa”, however, this is not in the recording sent by the DA. President of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha Ashwin Trikamjee told the Weekly: “I know premier Willies Mchunu as an activist, as an MEC, premier and personally. “Anyone suggesting that he will make any utterance that Indians were not part of South Africa is deliberately creating a fabrication to stir unnecessary controversy. “We don’t need such controversy when we all have more important challenges as South Africans.” The DA said in a statement: “The premier’s remarks were made during a debate on Heritage Day celebrations. This was after the DA had made a call asking him to protect the heritage of the province’s subsistence fishermen and the seine netting community. “We had requested that he support a review of the laws and regulations around these practices. Premier Mchunu responded by saying: ‘The Indians are not part of South Africa’.” The DA asked Mchunu to issue an immediate public apology to the Indian community. “In the event that he fails to do so, the DA will follow the requisite channels to bring the premier to book. “South Africa is riddled with racism on a daily basis and one does not expect senior and seasoned politicians like premier Mchunu to sew division in a country we all call home.” Spokesperson for the premier’s office Mandla Msomi said : “The allegations by Mncwango claiming Premier Willies Mchunu has said ‘Indians are not part of South Africa’ are not only baseless but also very divisive. “This is an attempt aimed at undermining the traction being made in rolling out the Social Cohesion and Moral Regeneration Programme which the Premier is championing in the province. “Nowhere in the clip provided by the DA leader does Mchunu utter such words as attributed to him.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.