Jana van der Merwe PHOTO: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Nearly a
year after the abduction of the toddler, the boy’s father who’s suspected of
being involved in the kidnapping, will be sent to a psychiatric hospital for
evaluation. The father
of Liam Nortjé (3) appeared in the magistrate’s court again in Harrismith in
the Free State on Tuesday. Nantes Nortjé, who’s been charged with kidnapping
his son, applied for bail a second time – unsuccessfully. Police
spokesperson, Sergeant Mmako Mophiring, confirmed to YOU that Nantes, in whose
care Liam was when he went missing in November 2017, is still refusing to say
where his youngest child is. Mophiring
added that Nantes’ lawyers had requested the state send their client for
psychiatric evaluation. “Next, it
needs to be established which facility has a bed available for him,” Mophiring
says. The case
has been postponed until 19 October. At Nantes’
previous bail hearing in August, Mophiring told YOU the 47-year-old has zero
chance of being granted bail as long as he refuses to provide the state with answers.
She added that so far, all he’s done is deceive police. YOU
previously reported Liam was last seen visiting his dad in Kestell in the Free
State. Nantes’
estranged wife and Liam’s mother, Cheinelle, had told him at the time she
wanted a divorce. The couple, who’d been separated for some time, also have two
teenage daughters together. Cheinelle says Nantes told her she could forget
about seeing Liam again. He’d also left her a scorched lock of Liam’s hair. Nantes had
been unemployed for some time before Liam’s disappearance and according to
Cheinelle he hadn’t made any effort to support his family. She’d been the
breadwinner. After
disappearing with Liam in November last year, police eventually found Nantes in
July this year in a township of Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal, and arrested him. But Liam
was nowhere to be found. One of the possibilities is that Nantes had left the
boy in the care of someone else, who’s hiding the boy. At this stage no one is
prepared to believe the worst has happened. Tania
Opperman from the South African Support Initiative (SASI), an organisation
specialising in finding missing persons, says it’s a criminal offense to hide a
child from his caretakers. She asks members of the public who might have
information to call her on 084-830-1031 or to send an email to
pascoewendy4@gmail.com.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  