Refilwe Sekwati Matriculants of the Tswelopele Secondary School reading the National Senior Certificate pledge. Insert: Ayanda Speelman (28) with Antonette Mofokeng of the Tswelopele Correctional Centre.Photos: Boipelo Mere Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Ayanda Speelman (28) of the Tswelopele Secondary School, currently an inmate at the Tswelopele Correctional Centre, grew up in the Eastern Cape under the plague of gangsterism. He was jailed in 2008 and could not complete his schooling. Last year a shift in his mindset lead him to yearn a more positive life for himself and that was when he decided to enrol for the National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations. Speelman dreams of furthering his studies and opening up his own business one day. This is the same way the 20 full-time and one part-time registered inmate learners at the Correctional Service’s school hall feel. They all took to the stage to commit themselves to the NSC examination pledge on 12 October under the theme “Nothing less than 100%”. The group of learners recited the pledge and signed it to show their commitment. They pledged to do their best in their upcoming examinations, to focus and devote their time to making the examination a success, to support their peers and to uphold the principles of honesty and integrity of the examination. Inmates were given a motivational speech by Neo Montsho of the Department of Education and entertainment by the Correctional Service’s band, which brought fun to the event and had the inmates moving to the beat of the drums. Principal Oduetse Malefo said they are expecting a 100% pass rate. In the previous year the school achieved a 74% pass rate and so far it looks promising as the learners managed to achieve a 95% pass rate in the September trial examinations. “Only one learner failed. We have put in place measures to assist him and he is responding to the programmes we have given him,” said Malefo. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  