Colin Hendricks PHOTO: Getty images/Gallo images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An
unemployed single mom recently received a municipal water bill of R220 000
– and had to live virtually without running water in her home for almost two
months. Amanda
Collins (52) from Montrose Park in Mitchells Plain, Cape Town, says she noticed
in September 2017 that she and her daughter (14) were suddenly using a lot more
water than usual. Before, her
monthly water bill was about R300 but because the usage, according to the
municipality, had shot up so drastically she eventually fell behind with payments
– at one stage owing about R3 000. Upon
further investigation she noticed the water meter on her property was showing
water usage even when the stopcock to the house was turned off. “There
must’ve been a leak somewhere,” Amanda says. She registered the fault at the
municipal offices in Lentegeur. But it took
a few more trips to various municipal offices before workers finally arrived at
her property. She says they didn’t “investigate thoroughly”. She was
unable to find the leak on her own property. Amanda and her neighbours share a
municipal water valve on the pavement outside their properties and they were eventually
forced to open the lid themselves. “The leak
was at the outside water valve, in the pipe that leads to my house. So the leak
was on municipal property,” Amanda says. Municipal
workers fixed the leak in the pavement in July this year. But that didn’t stop
the City of Cape Town from sending Amanda a water bill for R220 419 in
August. And on 6 August, the water pressure to her home was turned down to
almost nothing. “We put a
bucket under the tap to catch the drip and use that water. We could only flush
the toilet three times a day,” Amanda says. She
maintains the water bill isn’t her responsibility because the leak had been on
municipal property. Luthando
Tyhalibongo, spokesman of the City of Cape Town, told YOU the incident was
investigated. “The City
received previous notifications of leaks on the private property. But we also
received notifications of leaks in the municipal infrastructure and the City
fixed that leak,” he says. Leaks on
private property are the owner’s responsibility, Tyhalibongo says. “But we’ve
suggested her bill be adjusted for the duration of the specific leak, giving
the client the benefit of the doubt.” The City
also turned up Amanda’s water pressure again and, after nearly two months, she
finally has water in her home again.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  