Byrone Athman PHOTO: sourcedA car overturned after the suspects crashed into the it during a shootout with police on Thursday night. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories TWO men were arrested on Thursday night following a shootout with police on Town Bush Road which left one dead and two injured. The shootout ensued after the Pietermaritzburg Flying Squad and K9 Unit were tipped off regarding three men who were suspected of being involved in cases of motor vehicle theft around the Town Hill and Howick areas. The police first noticed the vehicle in question after observing the main routes in these areas. After attempting, unsuccessfully, to pull the three men over, the men sped off and a chase ensued. During the pursuit, the men opened fire on the police, who then engaged in a shootout with the men. This resulted in the getaway vehicle crashing into a civilian’s car, overturning the vehicle that was parked outside a housing complex. One of the men was killed during the shootout while two others were arrested by the police. They have been charged with attempted murder, possession of car-breaking implements, reckless and negligent driving, and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. A resident of the complex where the car had crashed, who wished to remain anonymous, said that the events were very shocking to them, especially since they are not used to much noise in the area. “While in my house, I heard an extremely loud bang along with tire screeching noises and then a bunch of gunshots followed by one another. Once the noise died down, I ran out to see what happened,” said the man. Police recovered a firearm, which will be sent for ballistic tests, and a car jamming device. Upon further investigation, it was found that the men were linked to at least 20 other cases of theft out of motor vehicles in the province where similar modus operandi was used. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed that the duo, who are between the ages of 35 and 45, will appear in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court soon. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  