Tammy Petersen Seven suspects have been arrested after a cash-in-transit heist left one motorist dead and another injured outside Mthatha. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Seven suspects have been arrested after a cash-in-transit heist left one motorist dead and another injured outside Mthatha, police said on Wednesday. Five people were arrested on Tuesday afternoon - a day after a gang travelling in a bakkie shot at a security vehicle on the N2 in Tsolo in the Eastern Cape, police said. Two others were arrested on Monday within hours of the heist. WATCH: Audacious thieves steal R10 000 in cash-in-transit robbery The bullets fired killed a 30-year-old woman and injured another motorist. Three security guards were disarmed and tied up before the safe was forced open and an undisclosed amount of cash was stolen. Activation plan Police spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo said the five were nabbed in another province as part of a joint 72-hour activation plan. The Hawks, forensics teams and Crime Intelligence worked with police to compile the evidence. "The tracking team, acting on a tip-off from Crime Intelligence, managed to trace and apprehend five suspects near the Nigel off-ramp in Gauteng," he said. "They were found to be driving a Toyota Hilux Bakkie [which had] false number plates. During a search of the vehicle, a false compartment was discovered where an undisclosed amount of money, three rifles, including two AK47s, magazines and rounds of ammunition were found." READ: Trio hit Cape Town mall in cash-in-transit heist National Police Commissioner General Khehla Sitole said the activation plan has "again proven to be very effective". "The mobilisation of maximum expert resources within this short space of time is critical to an effective investigation process, especially with regards to information and evidence gathering. This is what prevents ruthless perpetrators little or no opportunity to escape." The five arrested in Nigel are expected to appear in the local Magistrate's Court for gun and ammunition charges and the fake number plate allegations. They are expected to be transferred to the Eastern Cape to answer to the charges relating to the heist, Naidoo added. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  