Jana van der Merwe Bob Hewitt. (Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of the victims or former tennis player and convicted child rapist Bob Hewitt (78) says it’s absurd that after two years in jail Hewitt has applied to serve the remainder of his sentence – four years – under correctional supervision. Theresa “Twiggy” Tolken, who lives in New Zealand, told YOU on Thursday that there shouldn’t be any mitigating circumstances allowing for Hewitt’s sentence to be converted to correctional supervision. Hewitt, who’d been Twiggy’s tennis coach at the time, had raped her 38 years ago in a hotel room while they were at a tournament. He’d also forced her to perform oral sex on him on the way there. She was 12 years old. Hewitt was found guilty on two rape charges and one charge of sexual assault in the high court in Pretoria in May 2015. He was sentenced to six years in jail but now wants to apply for his sentence to be commuted to correctional supervision. “There should be no circumstances that allow him out – old or sick doesn’t cut it. When he raped me he didn’t worry about my age so why should anybody consider his age? He avoided justice for years,” Twiggy says. “I’ve given my statement to the investigating officer. I received and email this morning [Thursday] saying it’s an application for a conversion of his sentence, which I think means he wants to serve the remainder of his time under ‘house arrest’. “Firstly, I think it’s absurd. He’s only served two of his six years. As far as I’m concerned six years wasn’t enough in the first place. He should also not be allowed to apply for parole.” Twiggy, who emigrated to New Zealand many years ago, travelled to South Africa to testify in Hewitt’s trial. Charges against Hewitt were only brought three decades after his crimes when the victims found out about one another. Before, each had thought they’d been the only one. “We’re living in a world where too many children and women are being abused and raped,” Twiggy continues. “What kind of message is the law sending if he only has to serve two years and is then allowed to go home, live in the lap of luxury and sit on his patio drinking sundowners with his wife? “I don’t think so. He needs to stay in jail for his full six years, no parole and no special circumstances. He’s shown no remorse, just utter arrogance.” She says she wants closure and peace of mind for her and the other victims. “What he did will always be part of who we are and what our lives are. But we have to keep fighting for justice and to keep him in jail. It just keeps robbing us of our peace of mind.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  