Fever Reporter Andre Pretorius and Mar-Louise before the fall.PHOTOs: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories BACKABUDDY has once again come to the aid of those in need after a crowd-funding campaign was set up for Howick residents Mar-Louise and Andre Pretorius who while enjoying a day out with their son at the Karkloof Falls were involved in a serious accident on October 6. The couple were taking in the scenery when Mar-Louise cautioned Pretorius for being too close to the edge and called him back. Pretorius then lost his balance and quick-thinking Mar-Louise tried to grab his hand to prevent him from falling only for her to end up falling about 35 metres onto the rocks below with him. Thereafter they were both admitted into ICU at the Medi-Clinic hospital in Pietermaritzburg where it was established that Mar-Louise had fractured her skull, broken her collarbone and sustained multiple bruises and cuts to her face. Pretorius fractured his skull as well, while damaging his lungs and suffering from internal bleeding. Doctors had to remove Pretorius’ spleen and drill a hole in his skull due to the excess fluid as he remained in a coma. While Mar-Louise continues to make steady progress, Pretorius remains in a coma and doctors have stopped dosing him with sedation medication as they wait for him to wake up on his own. “This has been the most traumatic time of our lives. As a family we have been through so much but I would have never imagined finding ourselves in this situation. I wish I could have done something to prevent this from happening,” said a grief stricken Mar-Louise, who has been moved to Grey’s Hospital where she will undergo an eye operation and begin physiotherapy to help with her broken hip and shoulder. The couple both do not have medical aid and therefore their medical bills have been accumulating drastically, to the amount of R380 000, thus leading friends Kayleen Estherhuizen and Angela Woodhouse to set up a campaign on Backabuddy — appealing to the public to support the couple during this extremely difficult time. Going live on October 15, the campaign has since raised R95 254,32 with contributions coming in from 43 donors. “Mar-Louise and Pretorius do anything in order to help people in need and we are so happy to see the response from the public in trying to help them. We cannot wait for them to be back home with their son,” said Estherhuizen. Overwhelmed by the support they have received, Mar-Louise said that she and her family are very grateful. “We have received so much of generosity and kindness from people we don’t even know and it has really united our family. The messages of support and donations to our BackaBuddy fund have not been taken for granted, it has really been a source of comfort during a very difficult time,” she said. You can support the couple by donating to their BackaBuddy campaign here: https://www.backabuddy.co.za/mar-louise-and-andres-medical-treatment — Supplied 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  