The Mangaung Metro Municipality’s Mayor Olly Mlamleli has conceded that complex problems are crippling the city council to meet its mandate. She acknowledged the council’s predicament in her mayoral report which contains the outcomes of the mayoral lekgotla held on 19 and 20 October. Mlamleli briefed the media on the fact-finding lekgotla at a media breakfast held on Tuesday, 23 October, in Bloemfontein. She said her administration has set itself targets that would strengthen the organisation and eventually boost economic development. “While Mangaung still faces backlogs in certain areas of service delivery, we remain firm in our vision to liberate the majority of residents from the challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality. “This administration will ensure that it creates prosperous, liveable, inclusive living spaces with abundance of social and recreational amenities, with economic and job opportunities,” said Mlamleli. Targets have been set to achieve spatial, economic and service delivery, financial health and organisational performance. According to Mlamleli the economy of Mangaung is still based on the apartheid system. “Recommendation is to implement an integrated strategy that transforms the spatial and economic apartheid legacy of the Mangaung. “Furthermore, recommendation focuses on boosting economic development in Mangaung by strengthening administrative performance, which is the foundation for economic development,” she said. Mlamleli said the embattled Mangaung authority requires a coherent strategy to pursue spatial and economic transformation. She said integration zones, township development plans and improved links of services to agriculture hinterlands and rural development were fundamental. Mlamleli has identified the inability of the council’s poor financial management as one of the challenges. “Recommendation is to implement a financial reco­very plan to rebuild financial strength. “The Executive Management Team of Mangaung, in partnership with the National Treasury (NT) have engaged in strategic review and planning processes that deal with the inherent challenges the municipality is facing. “The municipality has recently collaborated with the NT to engage on and develop a financial recovery plan to assist with the long-term financial sustainability of the city. “To rebuild our financial strength, it is essential that Mangaung generates opera­ting surpluses, improve revenue performance and improve its cash position and control of expenditures, especially remuneration costs, non-revenue water, other large expenditure items and debtors management,” said Mlamleli.