Mxolisi Mngadi Zolile Khumalo murder-accused Thabani Mzolo in court. (File, Kaveel Singh/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Legal Aid was the option which so-called Facebook murder accused Thabani Mzolo chose to represent him when he is tried for allegedly killing his 21-year-old ex-girlfriend at a Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) student residence in Durban. This, after his lawyer, Charl Klaasen, withdrew his services because he had not been paid. Mzolo made his first court appearance in the Durban High Court on Monday in connection with the May 2 murder of Zolile Khumalo, which he seemingly confessed to on Facebook. KwaZulu-Natal NPA spokesperson Natasha Kara told News24 that the case was postponed to October 15 for him to sort out his legal representation. His trial was expected to begin on Monday after it was transferred from the Durban Magistrate's Court on August 29. Mzolo, 23, is accused of shooting Khumalo dead at the Lonsdale residence – a privately leased residence in the Durban CBD. He was also allegedly found in possession of an illegal firearm that had its serial number filed off and three rounds of live ammunition. Mzolo's relationship with Khumalo had ended in March or April, and "he did not take it well", according to the indictment. In a Facebook post on the same day, Mzolo wrote in isiZulu: "Konke kwaphenduka umlando ukube benginamandla bengzomvusa silungise amaphutha ngomlomo ...kodwa mnj kuphi laa ngba usehambe wangshiya ngingasashongo ukt ngyamxolela (sic)." Loosely translated, he said: "It is surreal. If I had the power, I would bring her back so that we can right our wrongs by talking. But that's no longer possible because she has left me without me having told her that I forgive her." When one of Mzolo's Facebook friends asked him what had happened, he wrote, "Ndoda ngombulele uMy zozo (sic)." (Man, I killed my Zozo). Mzolo is in custody until his next court appearance.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  