Duncan Alfreds Airbus is celebrating the successful launch of a satellite heading to the planet Mercury. The aerospace company led the building of the BepiColombo spacecraft, which will help scientists study the sun's closest planet and its environment. Mercury has not been exploration much. NASA says that Mariner 10 was sent to the planet in 1973 in a flyby mission and the Messenger spacecraft orbited Mercury in 2011. BepiColombo is expected to arrive on Mercury in 2025 after an 8.5 billion kilometre journey and will allow scientists to study the planet's environment with the 16 instruments on board. British-built spacecraft is set for Mercury A British-built spacecraft is set to blast off from Earth bound for Mercury, the mysterious planet closest to the sun.

BepiColombo, one of the most ambitious missions ever undertaken by the European Space Agency, will send two orbiters to explore... "This very complex mission is the result of a truly inspiring international cooperation among 83 companies from 16 European countries and Japan," said Nicolas Chamussy, head of space systems at Airbus. Hot planet The spacecraft is made up of two vehicles that will simultaneously observe the planet. It was launched from the Kourou spaceport in French Guiana. Despite being the smallest planet in the solar system, Mercury is riddled with craters, suggesting a number of impacts which have occurred because there is no significant atmosphere, says Space.com. Temperatures, though, swing wildly from a high of 450°C to a low of -170°C at night, the largest temperature swing in the solar system. Airbus had to ensure that BepiColombo, known affectionately as "Bepi", was engineered to withstand the harsh space environment. "All great missions come with challenges: Airbus had to develop sophisticated thermal control solutions and even 'special' solar arrays, capable of tilting 75 degrees away from the sun to limit the temperature. Now its challenge is to complete the journey safely and deliver the science we're all waiting for," said Chamussy. The spacecraft was launched on an Ariane 5 rocket that will enter solar orbit at 120 000km/h. In order to ensure that the probe will successfully orbit Mercury, a number of strategies have been employed to slow it down. The European Space Operations Centre in Darmstadt, Germany, developed an electric propulsion system to brake the craft just 60 days into its journey. Workers examine the Bepi stack. (Airbus) Final approach Bepi will also make nine planetary passes: One of Earth, two of Venus and six of Mercury. Finally, xenon-propelled ion thrusters powered by 14m by 1.8m solar arrays will be used to slow down the vehicle. As Bepi makes its final approach to orbit Mercury, its transfer module, which houses the thrusters and the arrays, will be jettisoned and the orbiters will manoeuvre into position. Bepi's stack configuration is seen. (Airbus) Bepi was built as a joint project between the European Space Agency and the Japanese Space Agency. The satellite was named in honour of Professor Giuseppe "Bepi" Colombo who was instrumental in the success of the Mariner 10 mission in the 1970s. The cost of the mission is estimated at €1.65bn (about R27.1bn). "This international effort, with Airbus teams from five countries, is the natural consequence of humanity's desire to discover more about this little-known planet and the origins of our solar system," said Chamussy.  Height 6.4 metres Mass 4 tons Instruments 16 Countries involved 16 Companies involved 83 Number of mission elements 4 Arrival at Mercury 2025 Distance to travel 8.5 billion kilometres Estimated Cost €1.65bn   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter PMI: euro zone eases, Japan slides but UK 'resilient' Euro zone business growth eased in September to a four-month low but was partly offset by a pick-up in services, a survey showed on Wednesday.  And as David Pollard reports, Japan's services sector grew at its slowest pace in two years although th... Palestinians turn to the sun to reduce their power shortfall Palestinians are hoping that harnessing the energy of the sun can reduce their dependence on Israel for electricity.  Thuy Ong repots. Rising oil price spurs jet buying bonanza This year's Farnborough Airshow wasn't expected to see too many big deals. But order announcements are flooding in as a rising oil prices helps spur airlines to snap up the most efficient new jets. Earth-sized planet discovered with 'mild' climate and peaceful parent star A newly discovered planet orbiting a nearby star could be the closest world to Earth providing a comfortable home for life. The Earth-sized planet, named Ross 128b, is just 11 light years away. Syria strikes will not 'turn tide' of war Boris Johnson says the purpose of air strikes on Syria by the UK, US and France was to send a message. A booster rocket for young entrepreneurs A financial jump-start, contacts and mentoring are all important for young entrepreneurs. Startups in the area of space technology and satellite navigation can apply to get that boost from the European Space Agency. How Earth's Extremes Could Help Hunt for Life on Mars What's the best way to try and find out what life on the red planet might be like? Astrobiologist Louisa Preston believes creatures surviving our planet's harshest conditions may provide valuable clues. 10 of the Least Explored Places on Earth Stuck in a bubble of boredom and need some escapist relief? Join us on a tour of some of the most remote locales on Planet Earth. Running on Sunshine Based around the 2003 World Solar Challenge, Running on Sunshine is the story of an epic journey of 3,000 kilometres across the Australian desert. The documentary reveals the link between the famous event and the development of motor technology. A Huge Asteroid Missed Earth and No One Saw it Coming We had no idea a catrastophe was a possibility when an asteroid almost struck the Earth. Autonomous car tech given green light The UK's largest collaborative trial of connected and autonomous vehicle technology has been given the green light to move out onto city streets, after the UK Autodrive consortium successfully completed its final set of test demonstrations. Boeing ups Chinese jet purchase outlook Boeing says Chinese airlines will buy 7,690 new planes over the next two decades, upping its forecast by 6.2 percent. Ten passengers taken ill on Emirates Dubai-JFK flight An Emirates flight to New York from Dubai was quarantined at JFK airport on Wednesday after passengers on board were taken ill. Flurry of threats hit global markets Global shares failed to rebound on Monday as threats such as trade wars, rising U.S. yields, Chinese growth, Brexit and the Italy/EU budget row continued to weigh on markets. As Francis Maguire reports, oil prices also rose as tension over the disapp Trade war: Japan's exports suffer but yuan spared by U.S. Japan's exports fell in September for the first time since 2016 as shipments to the U.S. and China declined, likely impeding third quarter economic growth and adding to concerns about the broadening impact of an escalating Sino-U.S. trade war.  As So Japan carrier leads a fight to recruit women Women make up around 9 percent of the crew members of the Kaga, Japan's largest warship, and it's being used as a model for the number of women Japan wants to see as members of its Self Defense Forces by 2030. Nasa footage shows eruption on the Sun Footage from Nasa shows a minor eruption on the Sun surface. The event was captured in extreme ultraviolet light. At its peak, the plasma rises to heights that are several times the diameter of Earth. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. Plugging the labour gap at the World Robot Summit in Japan As robot-workers stacked packets of lattes and bento boxes on a mock convenience store shelf, their Japanese inventors were cheering them on at the World Robot Summit. CDC says scores fell ill on Dubai-JFK Emirates flight The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says up to 100 passengers and crew fell ill on an Emirates flight to New York from Dubai on Wednesday, despite a statement by the airline that only ten were unwell. U.S. deports accused ex-Nazi guard to Germany U.S. authorities deported a 95-year-old New York City man accused of being a former guard at a Nazi labor camp. But it's not clear what happens next - German investigations have unearthed too little evidence of direct involvement in murder to issu... Target Germany In the spring of 1941 most of Europe was under German control. In the West only Britain remained in the fight. But it was largely a fight for survival. Crowds greet 'perfect' summer solstice sunrise at Stonehenge Crowds cheered the rise of the sun at Stonehenge as thousands gathered to celebrate the summer solstice. German shoppers help beat trade war blues, but China cools Euro zone growth was better than expected in the second quarter, boosted by Germany picking up steam on higher household and state spending despite trade-related business uncertainties. But, as David Pollard reports, Chinese economic data proved s... British-built spacecraft heads for Mercury A British-built spacecraft fitted with Star Trek-style "impulse engines" is on its way to Mercury, the planet closest to the Sun.

BepiColombo was blasted into space from the European space port at Kourou, French Guiana, at about 2.45am UK time on... Japanese space probe arrives at distant asteroid A Japanese space probe arrived at an asteroid over 180 million miles from Earth on Wednesday after a three-and-a half year journey on a mission to seek the origins of life. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's astrological wedding Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are set to have the stars and planets align for their wedding, according to astrologists. Nasa spacecraft heads to sun for closest look yet Nasa has launched a spacecraft to the sun that will fly closer to our star than anything ever sent before. Lift off in NASA's mission to "touch the sun" The Parker Solar Probe was launched on Sunday in a mission to venture closer to the Sun than ever before. Lost interstellar asteroid enters solar system and baffles scientists A lost interstellar asteroid has entered the solar system after wandering between the stars for hundreds of millions of years, scientists believe. The unique object, named Oumuamua, is highly elongated, about 400 metres long and dark red. Underground lake found on Mars Scientists say they've spotted what appears to be a sizable salt-laden lake under ice on the southern polar plain of Mars, raising the possibility of life on the Red Planet. Brazil mourns loss of National Museum destroyed by fire The cherished historical repository in Rio de Janeiro destroyed by fire over the weekend was plagued by underfunding and lacked fire prevention systems. Zachary Goelman reports Bring the Sun Home Illiterate women from villages around the world with no electricity attend a course to learn how to make solar panels in India. They don't speak English but they are determined to learn the new technology... and bring the sun home. How the Next Big Solar Storm Will Cripple the Planet. (And the Internet!) Can you imagine a world with no Internet, computers or cell phones? Earth is due for a solar storm and when it hits technology will suffer. How to tell if your solar eclipse glasses are safe How tell if your solar eclipse glasses are safe --  according to NASA scientists. Airbus Beluga XL soars into skies above France for first flight Airbus's new oddly shaped Beluga XL plane took off for its maiden flight from Toulouse Airport on Thursday. British air taxi firm takes flight, inspired by F1 racing advances A British energy entrepreneur and one-time Formula 1 racing team owner is entering the race to build new inter-city "flying taxi" services that tap recent aerospace advances while steering clear of more fanciful blue-sky visions touted by tech-foc... The space station hole is still a mystery: NASA NASA is tamping down speculation that sabotage caused an apparently man-made hole and air leak in a capsule docked at the International Space Station. But Russia's space agency appears to have ruled out a manufacturing defect. Understanding the Universe's Invisible Elements Our solar system extends a lot further than we first thought. Astrophysicist Charles Alcock says exploring its outer reaches may shed light on the Earth's beginnings. The Smart State Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has put innovation at the forefront of his growth plans for Australia. It's easy to think that all new technology is developed by hip companies like Google and Apple, but is this true? A tour of China's first big passenger jet China hopes to rival Boeing and Airbus with it's own commercial jet. 'It feels like we're living in Spain' What do the people out in the record-breaking sunshine think of the weather? Valley Discovered on Mercury A Great Valley bigger than the Grand Canyon was recently discovered on Mercury. Nasa spacecraft takes off for Mars Nasa has launched a spacecraft to land on Mars and explore the mysterious insides of the red planet.

A robotic geologist armed with a hammer and quake monitor is rocketing towards Mars after the successful launch of the craft on Saturday. Movie Premiere: Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom All dinosaur fans assemble. The latest installment in the Jurassic saga 'Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom' is here. Leading stars Chris Pratt and Bruce Dallas Howard endured the sun AND pouring rain to attend the world premiere in Madrid. Irish tourist board launches Star Wars ad into space Tourism chiefs in Ireland have launched a stratospheric ad campaign to highlight the island's key role in the latest Star Wars film.

While not quite a galaxy far, far away, Tourism Ireland has sent a billboard 21 miles above planet earth. National service: What's your view? As France reintroduces national service for 16-year-olds, what do people think about bringing it back to the UK? Movie Report: 'Midnight Sun' In the romantic drama 'Midnight Sun' we meet 17-year-old Katie Price, played by Bella Thorne, who suffers from a rare genetic condition that makes her vulnerable to sunlight. World Cup and discounting boosts UK retail sales growth British shoppers spent more than expected in July, after hot weather and the World Cup continued to boost food sales and other retailers offered discounts, pointing to a solid start to the third quarter for the economy.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.