Canny Maphanga DA leader Mmusi Maimane. (Photo: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The DA is of the view that it is its duty to perform an oversight on the South African Police Service (SAPS), which it says is underresourced, underfunded and undertrained. Speaking at the KwaZulu-Natal provincial launch of the party's Team One SA campaign outside the SAPS provincial headquarters in eThekwini, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said: "Criminals have become brazen because they know...there is very little chance of them being caught. "That’s why poor communities have become ganglands. That’s why drug dealers target young children outside their schools. That’s why we have the highest rape statistics in the world, and a murder rate that puts us on par with a country at war," Maimane said. The DA leader told the community that he would not accept the current high levels of crime in South Africa and would assist the SAPS in addressing this social ill. "I will not accept that this is the way it should be, and neither will my colleagues. It is not only our duty as citizens, but our sworn duty as members of Parliament and members of provincial legislatures to perform oversight over the SAPS – not to wave a finger at them, but to help identify where they are falling short and how this can be rectified," Maimane said. Maimane said that the provincial KZN SAPS was prohibiting the DA to conduct oversight visits. Maimane assured community members that these actions would not stop the DA from performing its constitutional duty in ensuring that communities feel safe. "We will root out corruption in the police service, we will retrain existing officers to ensure that they can serve and protect the public with pride, we will only hire people who display a true passion for policing, we will establish a world-class drug-busting force within the SAPS and we will ensure that effective arrests are followed by effective prosecution and conviction of criminals," Maimane said. Maimane was joined by DA KwaZulu Natal Premier Candidate, Zwakele Mncwango.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  