Colin Hendricks Markus Jooste. (Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former Steinhoff boss Markus Jooste’s daughter and son-in-law have put their luxury home in Stellenbosch up for sale. If you’re looking for property in the Winelands, Andrea and Stefan Potgieter’s three-bedroom home in affluent Mostertsdrift, Stellenbosch, will set you back R13m. Potgieter previously managed some of his father-in-law’s business affairs. The couple has a baby of a few months old. Billionaire Jooste has fallen on hard times since Steinhoff’s share price hit rock bottom. This came after bombshell allegations of financial irregularities at the company, which cost thousands of investors billions of rand. In February, shortly after the Steinhoff scandal broke, YOU visited the Potgieters’ Mostertsdrift abode to speak to Andrea, who declined to comment about her father’s affairs. READ: Steinhoff class action must be dealt with sooner rather than later - attorney With an asking price of R13 250 000, the house boasts three bedrooms, three bathrooms, two garages and two studies. The total property size is 528 m². Other luxury features include a bar, full air conditioning, a balcony, fireplace and patio and a sophisticated security system. According to the website of Anna Basson Properties, the property oozes understated luxury. “You’d want to spend the entire day enjoying and relaxing in this wonderful space. It’s difficult to do justice describing this special property and its exceptional features. A must to view,” the website states. “The house is welcoming, with excellent finishes, natural light and sunshine.” The sales agent, Herman Basson Carstens, wouldn’t confirm or deny to YOU whether the house is owned by Jooste’s daughter and son-in-law. “Why are you so interested in whose house it is?” he asked.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  