Alex Mitchley Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga. (Tshidi Madia) (Tshidi Madia) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Church Square in Tshwane was officially reopened on Friday after it underwent maintenance and upgrades. Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga, who attended the reopening along with MEC for Roads and Transport Ismail Vadi, said it was hoped that the revamp would attract more tourists as the square was already a hive of activity. The upgrades include broad walkways. "The grand plan for the city is always founded on our strategic pillars. It is, among others, a city that facilitates economic growth and job creation, a city that delivers excellent services and protects its environment. That is why some of our buses are environmentally friendly," said Msimanga. "The multiplier effects of this project extend three-fold or even more. It can be the best ever marketplace as it has been since its inception in 1855. "During its early years, the square was used as a marketplace and sports field and today is the grandest civic square in the city and among the great attractions in Gauteng." The mayor added that, while the square served as an intermodal junction for transportation, by its nature, it was bound to attract informal traders. "Perhaps what we may want to ponder upon is to think out of the box and marry these informal traders into the mainstream economy by encouraging them, as an example, to stock their products at Tshwane Market, ensuring a healthy and sustainable supply of products from our market for a niche market at the square." He announced that Phase Two of the Church Square project would focus on the finishing touches and would cost in the region of R10m. "The project in Church Square also forms part of the City's broader inner city revitalisation programme," he said. "This programme has multiple components which range from operational interventions such as round-the-clock cleaning operations and continuous by-law enforcement to major strategic projects that focus on infrastructure development, like Church Square - all of which are going to contribute to the inner city drawing in new visitors and businesses who will contribute to economic growth and development." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  