Siphelele Nketo DEPUTY President of South Africa David Mabuza called for unity during his speech at a National Heritage Day commemoration in Kokstad Riverview Stadium on Monday, September 24. Mabuza called for unity in diversity, unity in families, unity in communities, and unity in politics across all lines. He said there is no need for divisions and people must hold hands together in addressing the imbalances of the past for the future generations to have a prosperous South Africa. “It is understandable that human beings are prone, in times of national strife, in times of bitter socio-economic hardship, in times of hard debates about land reform, to retreat easily into narrow nationalist, racial and ethnic enclaves. However, I am standing on this day to state with conviction that this path we have chosen is the correct one,” he said, adding that the power of unity can build an equal society. He reminded people about the importance of using land, saying the earth is “pregnant” with hope and possibilities. A statue of the founder of Kokstad town, Adam Kok III, was unveiled by Mabuza with Kwa-Zulu Natal Premier Willies Mchunu and other dignitaries in attendance. There was an official renaming of Greater Kokstad Municipality building after Adam Kok III. Kok settled in Mount Curry Mountain in 1863, coming from the Free State Province. “We are here to remember the history of our country and the proud heritage that defines our being as a people. “We have come here to pay tribute to all those who came before us in making a South Africa of our dreams that is united in diversity. “We come to celebrate our heritage and to wallow in this spring of our diversity with a single objective of raising the sun of hope and unity despite all our differences,” said Mabuza. Mchunu thanked Greater Kokstad Municipality mayor Bheki Mtolo, who presented the idea of recognising Adam Kok III in partnership with Griqua community. The Griqua community, together with East Griqua Traditional Council chairperson Gabriel Marais, also thanked government for the honour with Marais stating: “After negotiations with government seeking recognition, we have been answered today.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  