Tammy Petersen Eben van Niekerk (centre) with Vernon Witboo (left) and Nashville Julius (right). (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "Don't be angry with me, please," one of the men on trial for the rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius wrote in a letter to her parents.The letter was on Tuesday admitted as evidence following a trial-within-a-trial over the admissibility of the document, which Eben van Niekerk claims was written at the instruction of Stellenbosch police officer Sergeant Steven Adams.The letter was written following his arrest, before he and his co-accused made their first appearance in the Stellenbosch Magistrate's Court.Riddled with spelling and grammatical errors, the letter – translated from Afrikaans – reads: "Herewith I write this letter to Henna's mom and dad. I am sorry for what I did and I ask if they can forgive me for what I have done… The girl was like a friend to me but the other accused, I was also scared of them and it wasn't nice to see. I was also scared of them. Don't be angry at me please (sic)."It is headed, "This letter comes from Eben VNK" and is signed and initialed. READ: Hannah Cornelius detective denies forcing accused to write letter to her parents Prior to its admission, defence lawyer advocate Dudley Johnson had argued that his client was instructed by Adams to write the letter.On Monday Adams testified that while transporting Van Niekerk to Victoria Hospital for an examination with the district surgeon, the accused heard a news report about the student's murder on a radio news bulletin.Van Niekerk asked him if he was in trouble, and Adams responded that he didn't know as, he claimed, he wasn't even aware what the accused was under investigation for at the time. According to Adams, Van Niekerk asked for a pen and paper once he was back in his cell at the police station. This is the letter written by Eben van Niekerk to #HannahCornelius’ family. Judge Allie has allowed it into evidence. Sergeant Adams reads it into the record.@TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Jxsd4fTnNN  He complied, and Van Niekerk later gave him the letter which the officer handed to his commander the following day, Adams testified. But when Van Niekerk was called to the witness stand, he denied that Sergeant Bongile Mputumi, who Adams said had accompanied him that day, had been with them in the police vehicle. He claimed a coloured, heavy-set detective had been with them. 'I thought it would make things easier for me' He claimed that the radio had not even been turned on in the vehicle. Van Niekerk testified that the two officers told him that Cornelius' murder was a "big case" and that he could be sentenced to many years behind bars. He claimed that at the Stellenbosch police station, Adams gave him a pen and paper and told him to write to "die kind se mense (the child's people)" to say he is sorry. Van Niekerk said he was told what to write, and instructed to sign at the bottom. "I thought it would make things easier for me. That's how he explained it," he testified. He said the letter was intended for "that girl's people", but that he thought it would be added to the State's evidence and not given to her family. String of charges Both the State and the defence agreed that the letter was more of an admission than it was a confession. Van Niekerk, Geraldo Parsons, Vernon Witbooi and Nashville Julius face a string of charges including murder, aggravated robbery, kidnapping and rape. The men allegedly accosted Cornelius and her friend Cheslin Marsh in her VW Citi Golf at the corner of Jan Celliers Road and Bird Street in Stellenbosch in the early hours of May 27, 2017. Cornelius was threatened with a screwdriver, while Marsh was forced into the backseat of his friend's car at knifepoint. Marsh was assaulted and left for dead while Cornelius was later raped and stabbed to death. The trial continues.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  