Nompendulo Ngubane Members of Hospersa have threatened a total shutdown of public health services. (Nompendulo Ngubane, GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Members of the Health and Other Services Personnel Trade Union of South Africa (Hospersa) have threatened a total shutdown of public health services if their demands are not met by the KwaZulu-Natal department of health within 14 days, reports GroundUp. KwaZulu-Natal community care givers (CCGs), data captures and nurses marched to the office of the premier in Pietermaritzburg on Friday. Provincial secretary for Hospersa Popson Kunene said a resolution with the employer was signed at a national level for the employees to get back pay from July 1. "That has not happened," said Kunene. "The employees have not been paid. With the CCGs... they are earning peanuts. They are currently being paid R1 950. The department is now singing a different tune. They say they were not aware of the agreement … The agreement was that they must implement the R3 500 for the CCGs. There is a letter that is dated 1 July." Snenhlanhla Ndlovu from Mpumuza was among hundreds of Hospersa members who were marching. Ndlovu said the KwaZulu-Natal MEC for health Sibongiseni Dhlomo should give them their money or "go away". "He is not paying attention to any of our demands. His department is on its knees. There is shortage of staff. Problems keep on piling up. We are failing to survive. Our children are suffering," said Ndlovu. During the march, protesters shouted: "Away with Dhlomo, away!" A memorandum of demands was accepted by the chief of staff in the office of the premier, Samuel Khuzwayo. "We are aware that you are expecting the response within 14 days. The memorandum will travel to all the right channels for feedback. We will get back to you within 14 days," said Khuzwayo. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  