Sesona Ngqakamba Patricia de Lille (Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Cape Town council will on Thursday table two
reports by law firm Bowmans (previously known as Bowman Gillfillan), into
maladministration in the city. The council will decide on what recommendations and
conclusions it will adopt on the reports. Outgoing Mayor Patricia de Lille is seeking to discredit the
reports, questioning the credibility of the law firm. This has resulted in speculation
over whether she will leave her position as planned at the end of the month. In one report into corruption and maladministration in the
City of Cape Town, De Lille is reportedly found to be complicit in
irregularities, while in the second report, she is absolved. On Wednesday, De Lille said she had repeatedly taken issue
with the "credibility" of the law firm ever since the inception of
the investigation. READ: De Lille lays into Bowmans reports as she mulls her
future as mayor "The initial report issued by Bowmans, on December 29,
2017 made a number of 'factual findings' which were inaccurate or simply
baseless. I wrote to them on January 3, 2018 requesting them to retract a
number of 'recommendations' made by themselves on issues which they had not
even questioned me on," De Lille said in a statement. "On January 5, 2018, when council adopted the unedited
report, even though I went on the record to say that there were a number of
material factual errors upon which Bowmans made 'highly prejudicial findings',
'conclusions', and 'recommendations' (sic)," she added. De Lille said she could not understand how the same company
would come to two different conclusions. She said her lawyers wrote to Bowmans to seek clarity on the
"contradictions" and had requested a response by the end of business
on Wednesday. De Lille said once she had received a response from the firm
she would discuss the matter with her lawyers pending the decision of council
on Thursday. She added that she would only be in a position to announce
her next step after council decides which report it would adopt. De Lille is currently serving her notice period, which is
expected to come to an end next week. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  