Phindile Shozi PHOTO: phindile shoziUpper Highway resident Joyce Fikile Ndlovu and her husband who she’s taking care of. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories CARING for someone with a disability can be tiring both physically and emotionally, however, for Upper Highway resident Joyce Fikile Ndlovu, it has become a way of life as both her husband and granddaughter are bed-ridden and disabled. Ndlovu said that she has to wake up in the early hours of the morning to look after the duo and see to their every need before she heads out to work. “I used to work five days a week but I had to ask my boss if I could work three days because of the ordeal I’m faced with at home,” she said. “I have to wake up early in the morning to clean them up, wash the bed linen and feed them before I even get ready to go to work. “Also, when I come back in the evening it’s the same thing because there’s no one who can do it besides me,” she said. Ndlovu said that as an elderly person, this is taking a toll on her body and there are times when she cannot look after herself, but she has to push on. “I get severe pains in my wrists and legs as I do all the washing by hand in cold water. I am old and I cannot do this anymore,” she said. Ndlovu said that she would really appreciate it if she could get some assistance from the public in terms of a donation of adult nappies and a washing machine. “Even if there’s anyone who has an old washing machine that I could use to clean the bed linen rather than wash it by hand, it would help me immensely. “Also the nappies would come in very handy,” she said. “A donation of nappies would mean a lot as we use toweling ones and I have to get up at all hours of the night to change them.” She pleaded with anyone who can help her out. “I’m pleading for people to help me because I would really appreciate it very much.” Those who might be able to help Ndlovu can contact her at 078 120 6579. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  