Canny Maphanga Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene is under pressure to resign. (Felix Dlangamandla, Gallo Images, Netwerk24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), through its leader Julius Malema, has written to President Cyril Ramaphosa asking him to accept the offer of Minister of Finance Nhlanhla Nene to resign. "We reiterate our position that his continued stay as minister of finance is not in the best interest of South Africa. Treasury cannot be presided over by a person without integrity," EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said in a statement on Monday. The call by the EFF comes after Nene apologised on Friday for failing to disclose that he had met with the controversial Gupta family on multiple occasions at the Saxonworld residence and Midrand offices between 2010 and 2014. "These visits do cast a shadow on my conduct as a public office bearer. I deeply regret these lapses and beg for your forgiveness," Nene said in a statement on October 5. This apology was rejected by the EFF, who said it would only be received if he stepped down as minister. "Nene has lied on numerous occasions about his role in Cabinet and government. He has also facilitated the capture of the state by the criminal Gupta syndicate," Ndlozi said. Nene has since asked the President to "relieve him of his duties", according to Business Day. News24 independently obtained confirmation that Nene asked Ramaphosa to relieve him of his duties. "The EFF is of the view that in the current 'difficult' economic times, South Africa does not need a minister of finance with a 'questionable character' and 'unethical conduct'," Ndlozi said. "Ramaphosa must release Nene from his duties with immediate effect."  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  