Velani Ludidi Asisipho Awuwa (20), a resident of Lwandle, says her birth certificate is her only form of identification. She has been battling to have her ID issued for more than a year.PHOTO: Velani Ludidi Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An investigation has been launched by the Department of Home Affairs into why a 20-year-old woman has been battling to have her identity document issued. Asisipho Awuwa, a resident of Lwandle, claims to have been sent from pillar to post in her quest to have the document issued since last year May, but she has not been successful. The second-year business management student managed to obtain her matric certificate, but says she is not able to apply for a child grant or birth certificate for her three-year-old son. “I went to the local Department of Home Affairs office in May 2017 and I was told to wait for a few weeks before I applied for the document,” Awuwa explains. “When I returned after a few weeks, an official informed me that my name was missing from my mother’s details.” After informing the official that her mother had died in 2011, she was asked to produce the death certificate. “The department kept on requesting more paperwork, which I was able to produce, but my ID is never issued,” Awuwa relates. “I am struggling, because I cannot apply for holiday jobs, let alone open a bank account.” She further claims her father’s efforts to assist her in gleaning the document has been futile, as he was apparently told only her mother could help. “I have a birth certificate with a valid ID number,” she adds. “I really do not understand what is causing the delay.” During examination time at college, Awuwa has to produce an affidavit explaining why she does not have an ID. “I fear that I may not be able to get a job after graduating and my son will not be able to start school, because he does not have a birth certificate,” she says, adding that she received a social grant until the age of 18. “It makes me wonder who government thought they were issuing the social grant to, when they now cannot issue my ID.” Upon inquiry, Thabo Makgola, spokesperson for the minister of Home Affairs, tells City Vision: “I have reported the matter to the provincial manager for Home Affairs in the Western Cape for further investigation. He will delegate officials to contact the client with a view to resolving the matter.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.