Byrone Athman Kireshen Chetty on the runway after displaying some of his work. PHOTO: supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories AFTER placing in the top three in the first ever Project Runway South Africa fashion show, Kireshen Chetty sat down with the Maritzburg Fever to reflect on his journey through the show, his experiences, what he’s learned, and what to expect from him next. The now famous fashion designer is still the same man we met when we first broke the story that he gained entry to the exclusive show, stating that even though he is aware that people now know him, he is the same humble guy from before the show started. “It is a bit weird for me now, taking it all in. Recently, on campus, a few girls came up to me and said they saw me on television and were so proud of me. It is a nice feeling but I am a down to earth guy, and the fact that I have been on television hasn’t gotten to my head,” said Chetty shyly. In a moment of bittersweet remembrance, Chetty said that it was a bit disappointing that he did not win but he remained positive for the future, stating that he left the show a better designer than when he walked in. “It was a great experience for me. As someone who didn’t study fashion and is in the fashion industry, being on the show helped me get better as a designer, through all the constructive criticism I received, and it also helped me harness my individuality when it came to my designs,” “Throughout all the challenges we were always kept on our toes and this was good for me as I work well under pressure and I got to harness this trait of mine even more on the show,” recalled Chetty. After the show, Chetty had no time to rest and got back into the swing of things in terms of campus life. Chetty is currently studying towards a master’s degree in architecture. Not wanting to dwell too much on the past, Chetty said that many opportunities have opened up for him thanks to the show and he is now focused on building his brand. “I want to build my own brand more now than ever and, thanks to the show, more opportunities have opened up for me. “I’m looking forward to opening up my own shop here in Pietermaritzburg, so watch out for that, and I am still intent on pushing for my dream, which is to one day showcase my work on the catwalk of the New York and Paris fashion week shows,” said Chetty. Chetty thanked all those who had a hand in his journey, from his friends, family, and supporters, stating that he was very grateful for those who supported and continue to support him. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  