Jeanette Chabalala  Newly appointed Finance Minister Tito Mboweni has been pondering on whether he should hand over his Twitter account to officials at National Treasury - which would turn it strictly to a professional medium of communication - or whether he should continue to tweet in his personal capacity. Mboweni has in the past used the platform to tweet some of his thoughts on government policies, which often did not toe the party line. Now minister of finance, Mboweni might be expected to tone things down somewhat. On Friday night he tweeted: "Let us vote on this. Should I or should I not hand over my Twitter account to the Pretoria mandarins or not. In other words, should THEY tweet for me! I think this is undemocratic. What do you think?" Let us vote on this. Should I or should I not hand over my Twitter account to the Pretoria mandarins or not. In other words should THEY tweet for me! I think this is undemocratic. What do you think? With more than 1 000 replies, most users advised him to keep tweeting in his personal capacity. No! They will kill us with officialdom. Your views are refreshing.  Keep it ,no handover!In this age we need Mp's ,Ministers and Presidents that are accessible,should we be in a position to be whistle blowers of scandals and corruption as well as highlight areas of concern !  Keep it. But step away from your phone slowly when angry, tired or triggered. ??  Tweet for yourself. We’ll feel close to our leader. They (whoever they are) may not respond to us when we need something urgently.  Others advised him to hand it over to officials to tweet on his behalf. But what do the rules say and what if he tweets something that sends the Rand tumbling? He's in a very fickle position now. He should hand it over. — Sphe (@Peabss) October 26, 2018  Last week, Mboweni also used the platform to ask followers for tips on what they would announce at the medium-term budget policy statement (MTBPS). Let us do something unusual which will annoy the Establishment. If you were Minister of Finance, what would you announce on Wednesday next week. It is time for the Medium Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS). Over to you. Don’t tell the Establishment about this tweet!!      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  