Byrone Athman (From left) Onelisa Twayinga, Nokulunga Ndlovu, Simlindele Njoko, Nomali Xulu, and Lindekuhle Madlala. PHOTO: byrone athman Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories LAST Wednesday, the KwaZulu-Natal Museum held a short orientation for the pupils who were selected to go on a trip to Cape Town and Robben Island to prepare the learners for their trip. The pupils who were selected had to cover a topic provided by the museum based on the theme “To what extent as South Africans are we living to the values that Nelson Mandela stood for?” Nine schools attended the event, which took place on July 26, of which five pupils were selected from each school after they performed a 10 minute presentation on their topic. The panel of adjudicators comprised Ms Quigley and Ms Mkhize, both publishers from Shuter and Shooter, Ms Dlamini, a subject advisor from the Department of Education, as well as Dr Geoff Blundell, the Head of Human Sciences Department at the KZN Museum. The Maritzburg Fever spoke to some of the pupils to find out what they were most excited about and what they looked forward to seeing on their trip to the Western Cape. For 16 year-old Nokulunga Ndlovu from Georgetown High this will be the first time anyone in her family will travel to the Western Cape, which she says is a proud moment for her and her family. “I am going to a place where no one in my family has ever been and my family are very proud of me for this,” said Ndlovu. Grade 10 pupil Simlindele Njoko said that she hoped to use this trip to improve her knowledge on injustices of the past so that she can work towards eradicating the injustices of today. “I want to develop my knowledge further from this trip so that one day, when I am a lawyer, I can fight against the injustices of today just like Nelson Mandela did,” promised Njoko. Onelisa Twayinga from Kharina Secondary School said that his topic focused on peace which Mandela so strongly advocated for while in prison. “Mandela was a peacemaker and spent 27 years in jail and still came out not holding a grudge and wanting to forgive. I hope to see what he went through on Robben Island and use that experience in my quest to promote forgiveness,” said Twayinga. The KZN Museum pays for the transport of the learners to Cape Town but the accommodation and meals will be paid for by Robben Island Museum. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  