Jenna Etheridge Renaldo Galant and Charlton Renier have made a brief appearance in the Western Cape High Court. (Christina Pitt, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two men who were convicted of the murder of 2-year-old Braydon Graaff and the attempted murder of his mother and another man in Atlantis two years ago are expected to be sentenced soon. Renaldo Galant and Charlton Renier made a brief appearance in the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday, following their convictions at the end of last month. READ: Two convicted of killing Braydon Graaff, 2, injuring others in gang shootout Judge Tandaswa Ndita had postponed the matter after conviction so the defence would have time to obtain pre-sentencing reports. The matter was provisionally postponed on Tuesday until November 19, although it is not yet clear whether sentence will be handed down that day. A stray bullet fired during a gang shootout hit Graaff in the chest while he was in the arms of his mother Rostan at a MyCiTi bus stop on October 22, 2016. READ: Prison gangster witness grilled about night toddler died 'Eina, mommy' His mother was hit in her left wrist. Galant and Renier, along with Andrew Hendricks, were charged with murder, two counts of attempted murder, assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, the illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition, and contravention of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act. The State alleged that they had targeted Dennic Hendricks, who was also at the bus stop. But, at the start of the trial, they pleaded not guilty to the charges, denying that they were part of the G-Unit gang and claiming that they were not involved in the shooting. During their trial, Rostan Graaff testified that she could feel her son had been shot because she felt heat against her body and realised it was blood. She knocked on the doors of nearby homes, but no one answered. Braydon apparently said to her: "Eina, mommy." The child was dead by the time they arrived at the hospital. Various State witnesses on the scene testified that they had seen Galant handing a firearm over, Renier firing shots and Andrew Hendricks driving a blue VW Polo, the getaway vehicle. The court found that Renier and Galant were gang members who had committed the crime in furtherance of gang goals. Ndita acquitted Hendricks on all charges on September 27. She said his alibi was unshaken and she did not believe the State had established that he had acted in the furtherance of a common purpose with his co-accused. "Although accused (Hendricks) was present at the scene, I am not convinced that he knew or aligned himself or foresaw the possibility of what was going to unfold." She did not believe he saw Galant handing the firearm to Renier outside the car. The men remain in custody. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  