Duncan Alfreds Cape Town city bowl is seen from Signal Hill. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Western Cape is set to cook as the temperature peaks at 33°C this week. According to data from the South African Weather Service (SAWS), the maximum temperature in Cape Town will hit 33°C on Tuesday and 32°C on Wednesday. SAWS issued a red alert for the Western Cape, the western parts of the Northern Cape and the western parts of the Eastern Cape on Tuesday. READ: Rain, thunder set to lash Gauteng, KZN, Mpumalanga over the weekend The warning relates to hot weather that could result in veld fires. "Today, we have strong interior winds in that section, and that's why we have a veld fire warning," SAWS forecaster Victoria Nurse told News24. READ: Why car heat is a child-killer Dam levels In Beaufort West, the temperature will spike at 33°C and people in Laingsburg can expect 36°C on Tuesday. While it's predicted to be partly cloudy, Vredendal will hit 38°C, SAWS predicted. Data from Windy.com showed a strong high-pressure system off the east of the country, driving warm air into the interior. READ: You need to know this if you're spending too much time in the sun SAWS predicts that Johannesburg, Pretoria and Bloemfontein will be warm in the mid-20s. However, Durban will experience a high of 31°C on Wednesday and Thursday with an expectation of rain on Friday (29°C). READ: SA on heatstroke and heat exhaustion alert Windy.com showed that a weak cold front system will develop to the west coast of the country by Thursday, but is unlikely to bring any rain to the Western Cape. On Thursday, the dam levels for Cape Town stood at a healthy 75.6% of capacity, down slightly from 76% last week, but significantly higher than the 38.5% in 2017. Across the drought-affected province the capacity stands at 66.2% for the 44 main dams as of October 15, according to the provincial government.  It’s only 8am and I’m already melting in this #CapeTown heat ??Skipped spring straight into summer schucks! ??  Goodmorning Cape Town. How did yall sleep in last night's heat?? I know we asker for some sun but wow??????  The heat is on in Cape Town this week. Keep hydrated and cool. We not dipping below 30 degrees! ????????#capetownmag #lovecapetown #beachdays #MeetSouthAfrica #discoverctwc #dazzlesouthafrica pic.twitter.com/qTl6Ak5F9s  Cape Town heat ???? It's not even midday!!!!  Remember #CapeTown with the 40 degree heat this week, we are still on level 5 water restrictions. #Useyourbuckets   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  