Andile Sithole PHOTO: ANDILE SITHOLEResidents are concerned about the state of the incomplete transit camps in Umbhayi, stating that they do not want to move into housing without ablution facilities or water pipes. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories HOUSING officials in Tongaat appealed to members of the community to remain calm following numerous complaints about the Umbhayi Housing Project, currently taking place in the area. Residents were complaining about incomplete transit camps where they will be relocated to once the demolition of the shacks starts. Residents said the transit camps are not equipped with ablution facilities and water pipes. Human Settlement chairperson in Ward 61, James Gumede, urged residents to be patient as the construction of the transit camps is not yet complete. “The issue of ablution facilities was raised on numerous occasions in our meetings with other housing officials. We can assure the residents that the transit camps that they will be occupying while the project is underway will be furnished with proper stand pipes and ablution facilities,” Gumede said. According to some of the residents, the project is long overdue. Phindile Sibiya said: “We have been waiting for the houses for the past 10 years. People have resorted to stealing electricity because we felt that we were neglected,” Sibiya said. Ward committee member Maxwell Ndunge said the process to allocate residents to the transit camps has not yet started. “The project is still underway. Transit camps are not even completed. “We appeal to the residents to calm down as the allocation process has not started. The residents will be notified when the transit camps are complete. “I can assure the people of Umbhayi that they will be provided with ablution facilities at the transit camps,” Ndunge said. Ward councillor Dolly Munien confirmed that she had received complaints from the residents claiming that they will be relocated to the transit camps without proper ablution facilities. “How can you put people into the transit camp without ablution facilities? Residents were upset and demanded answers from the housing officials,” Munien said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  