Jana van der Merwe PHOTO: YOU archive Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The
children of the so-called Springs monster and his wife crave a normal life. That’s what
a family friend who’s close to the eldest daughter (now 20) told YOU on Monday after
the sentencing hearing of the man and his wife (both 40) was postponed to
tomorrow in the high court in Pretoria. Judge Eben
Jordaan presided over the trial and will hand down sentencing tomorrow
(Wednesday). “We all
want to see justice served. We don’t want either of them to get off scot-free.
But now the children just want to get on with their lives,” the friend said. Advocate
Jennifer Cronjé, for the state, reportedly argued in closing statements that a
prison sentence of 25 years wouldn’t be long enough for the man. She also
argued the wife’s sentence can’t be softened just because she’d been an “abused
woman”. Both the
husband and wife had troubled childhoods, the court heard. But Bronwynn Stollarz,
a psychologist and the state’s expert witness, testified the man is a “sadistic
psychopath” and should be sentenced accordingly. The
couple’s eldest son said in a statement he never wants to see his parents again
and that he wants them to go to jail “for a long time”. He also said it’s their
fault he and his siblings are in orphanages or foster care. The eldest
brother and sister are in foster care, while the three youngest children are in
an orphanage, according to the family friend YOU spoke to. Judge
Jordaan found the couple guilty on several serious charges in August. The
charges against the husband included child abuse and neglect of the couple’s
five underage children, attempted murder of his eldest son (then 11), as well
as raping his eldest daughter (then 16). He was also
found guilty on drug possession charges, as well as defeating the ends of
justice. The wife
was eventually found guilty of child neglect and defeating the ends of justice. To protect
the underage children, the couple’s names have been withheld ever since they
were arrested in May 2014. Police had
been called to the couple’s home in Springs on Gauteng’s East Rand after the
eldest son had managed to escape and run for help at the neighbour’s house. It later
emerged that the father had held his wife and children captive in their home
for years.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  