Robyn Lucas Katherine and Bronko Hoang. (Photo: Facebook/Katherine Hoang) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man woke up to the heartbreaking news that his wife and unborn sons died in a horrific crash involving a speeding driver. Bronko Hoang from Sydney, Australia, started screaming after hearing the devastating news that his wife, Katherine (23), and unborn children were killed in an accident on 28 September, Mirror News reports. The 25-year-old had to be sedated after being told the dreadful news by medical staff. “He screamed so loudly, ‘Why Katherine? Please not the babies’,” his aunt Pham Crawford told the Daily Telegraph. “He can't stop crying and feels guilty he's the only one who survived. He's in complete shock and in so much pain. “We're all devastated. It would’ve been the first grandchildren for both families.” Bronko was seated in the front passenger seat teaching a 17-year-old relative how to drive while Katherine sat in the back when 29-year-old Richard Moananu, who was allegedly driving more than 100km/h, crashed into the Hoangs’ car. Katherine and the teenager died on the scene, news.com.au reports. Bronko survived the horrific crash with broken ribs and a fractured leg and cheekbone. Richard now faces 10 charges, including manslaughter, two counts of aggravated dangerous driving occasioning death, and had a bedside court hearing because he’d sustained leg injuries and was immobile.  The couple’s friends have set up a GoFundMe page to raise funds for the deceased’s funerals. "The money we raised will be given to both Katherine's and [the relative’s] family as they begin to make funeral preparations," the page says. "We have also discussed with the family and they have agreed to donate some of the money to the trauma team who worked endlessly to save Katherine's life at the scene of the accident and rescuing Bronko." Sources: Mirror, Daily Telegraph, news.com.au   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.