Thami Ka-Nkosi PHOTO: THAMI KA-NKOSIRay Nkonyeni municipality after winning the Govan Mbeki Accredited Municipality Level One Excellence Award. (From left) Khanyiso Seyisi, Mayor Cynthia Mqwebu, and Municipal Manager Max Mbili. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Ray Nkonyeni Municipality (RNM) has once again secured the Govan Mbeki Best Accredited Local Municipality Level One Award. The 2018 KwaZulu-Natal Govan Mbeki Awards ceremony, held at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Conference Centre on Thursday, September 20, saw the municipality secure the award for the sixth time in a row, having won the provincial award each year since 2012. A level one accredited municipality undertakes some delegated housing functions, such as beneficiary management, subsidy budget planning, allocation, and priority programme management, as well as human settlement administration. At the monthly media briefing, Mayor Cynthia Mqwebu said these awards are also aimed at promoting best practices while motivating and honouring stakeholders and role players in the human settlement value chain. “These include developers, building contractors, the banking sector, community-based organisations, building material suppliers, and professional associations of consulting engineers and quantity surveyors,” said Mqwebu. RNM participated as the developer together with some contractors who are implementing agencies on behalf of RNM. The Fezeka Business Services CC, which is an implementing agent on behalf of RNM in KwaNzimakwe Rural Housing Project and Gamalakhe In-Situ Housing Project, was declared the second runners up in the Best Established Woman Contractor in the Subsidy Market. “This category recognises qualified and registered contractors who have built more than 500 houses in the last three years and made a significant impact to the communities by building sustainable human settlements,” she said. Ray Nkonyeni Municipality was then declared the first runner up in the Best Rural Housing Project through the Oshabeni Rural Housing Project. This category, which had 22 entries, recognises the best housing project in areas outside of the city or urban boundary where populations are spatially dispersed. RNM was also one of the finalists in the Arbour City Awards on September 7, which recognises the greenest cities.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.