Jenna Etheridge Two men have been arrested in connection with the fatal shooting of a Sea Point hotel manager. (Tiro Ramatlhatse, Gallo Images, Sowetan, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two men have been arrested in connection with the fatal shooting of a Sea Point hotel manager two years ago, the Hawks said on Tuesday. Craig Mathieson, the night manager of Hotel 303 located in Sea Point and owned by businessman Mark Lifman, was murdered inside the establishment in November 2016. READ: Man arrested for murder of Sea Point store manager Nothing was stolen from the 44-year-old or from the hotel, leaving some fearing he was the target of a hit. The father of three was apparently shot once. Gang links News24 previously reported that Mathieson's murder had rattled some underworld figures. The shooting happened an evening after the killing of attorney Noorudien Hassan, who was linked to high-profile gang cases. READ: Watch how Cape Town’s violent underworld takeover is escalating Based on information from two sources, News24 understands that before the murder, two men, suspected to be gangsters, had been at an eatery near Hotel 303. They had become involved in an argument with the eatery's manager and Mathieson, who was there, had intervened. The pair left, but according to one source, later returned to Hotel 303 as they knew Mathieson was based there. According to the second source, one of the men managed to get a security gate opened for him and upon on exiting, placed an item to prevent the gate from closing completely. The second man then made his way through the gate and into the hotel, where he shot Mathieson. Postponement Hawks spokesperson Captain Philani Nkwalase said Sillico Zainauet Oliphant and Moegamat Faizel Abrahams were arrested on Friday. They appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Monday and the case was postponed for a week's time for their formal bail application. Provincial Hawks head Major General Nombuso Portia Khoza welcomed the arrest. Netwerk24 reported that the men had ties with Colin Booysen, brother of alleged Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen. Colin and his two bodyguards are expected back in the Bellville Magistrate's Court on Tuesday morning in connection with the fatal shooting of a man during an argument in Belhar in September.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  