Mandy Wiener Magistrate's Court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The State has confirmed that the case of a man accused of using a pool cue to stab a patron in the eye at an Alberton pub last year, has been provisionally withdrawn. This is despite the incident being captured on CCTV footage. Debt collector Daniel Olivier was arrested for allegedly attacking Ludi Vink at Mitzy's Pub in February 2017. Vink attempted to stop a fight between Olivier and the owner of the pub. Footage of the incident was widely shared on social media. The 30-year-old artist had been at the pub with his mother, Danlee, a local hairdresser. He was an Australian citizen and had only been in the country to renew his visa. Following the attack, Vink was declared brain dead and his family took the decision to donate his organs. Several lives are believed to have been saved as a result. Olivier handed himself over to police days after the incident and was released on R5 000 bail. His case had been set down for trial this week. However, prosecutor Johann Olivier withdrew the case in the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court on Monday. Olivier said this was done because statements and documents were still outstanding. Of primary concern was the fact that the post mortem report was still outstanding, a year and eight months after Vink's death. Additional affidavits relating to the CCTV footage also needed to be collected. It was understood that Olivier's defence lawyer was not contesting the authenticity of the video. However, he was expected to challenge the interpretation of events captured on film. According to Alberton Record, after Olivier was told the charges against him were withdrawn, he looked up to the roof, held his hands together on his chest and said: "Thank you." It is expected that the prosecutor will place the case back on the roll within the next month. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  