Lesego Mkhize Lindokuhle Joans is an 18-year-old matriculant  who was left destitute and following a tragic blaze in Khayelitsha. 
(PHOTO: Lindokuhle Joans Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lindokuhle Joans is an 18-year-old matriculant and one of the 1 300 people who were left destitute and displaced this past weekend following a tragic blaze in Khayelitsha. Speaking to DRUM, Lindokuhle, who lived with his aunt and her two children in the Cape Town informal settlement popularly known as Blowy, recalled what happened the fateful night his home went up in flames. “It happened at night, at around 12 midnight, that’s when I started to see the fire.  It was so windy and before we knew it the smoke was like a dark cloud hoovering around my house . . . we were choking,” he said. READ MORE: More than 1 300 homeless after Khayelitsha blaze Yet the Matthew Goniwe Memorial High School pupil said his family managed to salvage some of their belongings. “We managed to get our furniture, TV, sofas and stuff but the things we couldn’t get out were our clothes . . . it was so windy and that was how the fire spread so fast through our area.” Lindokuhle said he suspected the blaze that burnt down hundreds of shacks might’ve been caused by illegal electricity connections. “Since we don’t have electricity in that area we used to create cable connections from nearby homes, and I think that one had a faulty charge which was what could’ve possibly started the fire,” he said. Although his family was lucky to save some of their things, he said his two cousins, a boy aged 12 and a 5-year-old girl, were left with nothing. “We didn’t manage to save my cousin’s clothes . . . they have absolutely nothing. My aunt was shivering and crying while all of this was happening and [she]was so helpless – there was nothing I could do because I was also helpless,” Lindokuhle explained. READ MORE: Khayelitsha blaze: 'I have no clothes other than the ones I'm wearing' “Luckily I had some of my clothes on the washing line which I had left overnight to dry. Fortunately, my uniform was there and two jeans and two T-shirts,” the teen said. “I am still wearing the shoes I was wearing that night.” Although Lindokuhle and his family were physically unharmed by the inferno and are currently residing in a rental shack 10 minutes away from their former home, the matriculant will write his first final exam maths paper on Friday. He took to twitter seeking assistance.  Hi. Twitter people, I'm a victim of the Khayelitsha fire. Anything can assist, I'm a grade 12 learner I'm writing my first final exam on Tuesday. I need stationery and uniform. We managed to get a rental shack 10 minutes away from the place we used stay in. @bonang_m @Boity  “Hi. Twitter people, I'm a victim of the Khayelitsha fire. Anything can assist, I'm a grade 12 learner I'm writing my first final exam on Tuesday. I need stationery and uniform [sic],” he tweeted. Lindokuhle’s tweet went viral and he soon had donors dropping off stationery and clothes for his cousins. DRUM spoke to Western Cape education department (WCED) spokesperson Jessica Shelver to find out what strategies are in place to assist matric students affected by the blaze. “Principals have reported that they have assisted these learners with a safe space to study as well as study material. The district will provide additional resources to schools as required,” Shelver said. “Our exams directorate has also confirmed that arrangements will be made for the learners who lost their ID documents in the fire. We will ensure that they will not be disadvantaged.” Shelver also urged students who required support to contact their school principals “so that direct arrangements can be [made] with the district concerned”. “The Metro East school principals have recorded 47 learners from schools within the East District who lost their homes in the fire,” Shelver said, adding that the department would be providing trauma counselling for all learners. She then proceeded to thank all those who’d shown support and donated to the fire victims. “We are heartened by the support that has been pledged by a number of schools who have appealed to their parent bodies to assist with donations of stationery, clothing, bedding and non-perishable foods.” READ MORE: South Africans rally behind Khayelitsha fire victims  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  