KZN Coastal and Proteas Women’s stalwart Chloe Tryon has been selected as part of the national squad that will do battle at the upcoming ICC Women’s World T20 in the West Indies from November 9-24. Tryon’s hard hitting and left-arm seam bowling has meant that she has elevated herself into a position of authority amongst the women’s national side; and she is confident that the side’s recent trip to the Caribbean will stand them in good stead going into the showpiece event. “We learnt a lot on our trip now which is going to be important come the World Cup,” she mentioned following a two day journey home. “There is obviously a lot we need to work on, but we have a good idea of what we need to do at the competition in order to do well, having recently experienced the conditions.” The women’s side were beaten semi-finalists at the last 50 over World Cup and didn’t qualify for the semi-final in the last edition of the T20 World Cup in India. Tryon is confident that the side has improved since 2016 and knows that they have what it takes to go all the way. “We want to go there and win the competition. But we are not going to get carried away — we’ll take it one game at a time.We know that we are good enough to win the tournament and we are hoping to prove to the world that we are that strong,” she added confidently. The former Scottburgh High School pupil has played 48 T20 Internationals and has an impressive strike rate of 142 with the bat. Her economy rate of 6.79 with the ball proves that she might be useful on the slower wickets of the Caribbean. KZN Cricket CEO Heinrich Strydom congratulated Tryon on her selection for the national side. “It is always encouraging to have players from KwaZulu-Natal selected to represent South Africa in major international cricket competitions. “Hopefully Chloe can continue to inspire cricket lovers in the province and we wish her and the rest of the Proteas Women’s team all the best in the West Indies,” he added. More information can be found at www.dolphinscricket.co.za — Supplied.