Nomzamo Yuku Three generations celebrate Aunty Edie’s 100th birthday (People's Post) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories What is better than a family gathering to celebrate a 100th
birthday? The Sasman family had a great start to the month,
celebrating the life of their mother, Edith Beatrice ("Aunty Edie")
Steffenson on Monday 1 October at their family home. She was spoilt rotten by her surviving children Dougie,
Arthur, Ralph and Colin Sasman and Phoebe Petersen, along with 18 grandchildren
and 15 great-grandchildren. They say she has been through a lot in her lifetime
and deserves the honour they give her. Sharing her secret to a long life, Aunty Edie says she never
indulged in smoking and drinking. She has always eaten healthily and minded her
own business. "I eat just enough for my body and I live a good
Christian life. Live your life one day at a time and let tomorrow look after
itself. I do not worry about that, it is not important to me, God takes care of
the rest. Mind your own business." Her children believe it is her strong heart and humanity
that have led to her being blessed with many years. After losing three husbands
and having to raise eight children on her own, she later got help from her
eldest son. Her children say that among many amazing things she has
surprised them with was booking herself into an old age home at the age of 80,
spending most of her time reading newspapers and magazines without the aid of
spectacles. "So independent was she and because she never ever
wanted to be a nuisance to anybody, she decided to book herself into the GH
Stark Home in Hanover Park when she turned 80 years old. She stayed there for
18 long years until we decided to move her nearer to us to a private home in
Wynberg. She still reads novels and newspapers without specs and is still of
sound mind."  Ralph Sasman says: "We are really blessed as a family
to have mom still with us at 100 years and whatever time God has granted
further for her life, our prayer is that it be happy, peaceful and tranquil by
God’s grace." He says after all the children were settled and living their
own lives, it was not too late for Aunty Edie to follow her heart and explore
the world. "She started playing bowls for Highlands Club in
Mowbray. She stopped playing when she went to live with Aubrey in Durban for a
few years, before she returned to Cape Town [and] when the travelling bug got
to mom she decided to go to Australia, Canada and England and was blessed to go
on pilgrimage to Israel all in the space of 10 years." She also has a 91-year-old sister living in Australia. @Nomzamoyuku 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  