Byrone Athman PHOTO: suppliedColin and Pam Boake with some of the children at their home. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories HAVING started off life as an ordinary married couple with dreams of having a family, Colin and Pam Boake never in their wildest dreams ever thought they would be running a home for abandoned babies. Now, 20 years later, they have 11 children in their home ranging from the ages of four to 21 years old. “I yearned for a family, more so I developed a yearning to help children in need and especially helpless abandoned babies,” said Pam. The Boakes started taking in abandoned babies that the police and social workers brought to them as they had nowhere else to take them. Over the years, some of the babies stayed with the family, being brought up by the Boakes who have fed, clothed, educated and, most importantly, created a loving environment for them, all at their own expense and with the on and off support of the community. Seeing this, and feeling morally obliged to help, property consultant Trisha Parsons started a Facebook page for the Boakes to assist them with publicity in order to try and generate donations for food and money to help them care for the children. “As Pam and Colin have grown older they have found it more and more difficult to take in small babies, and at present have 11 children in their home ranging from four to 21 years old,” said Parsons. Parsons said that the Boake family has provided a loving and safe environment for these children over the years, where they have taken on the role of mum and dad in their lives. “They wake up every morning and make sure these children are fed, clothed, taken to school, collected from school, have their homework supervised, and have all their emotional needs taken care of as well,” said Parsons, who added that this was a huge daily challenge for the Boakes who have been plagued by various health issues of their own lately. “They are always in need of not only foodstuffs and household goods, but also financial contributions to assist towards school uniforms, school fees, transport costs, and medical bills. “They would also be very grateful to anyone who can help with spending time with the children, to help with homework or projects, or even just to be there to spend much needed quality time with the children as Colin and Pam’s time is spread so thin with all the daily chores,” stressed Parsons. If anyone can assist please contact the Boakes at 033 344 3020. People can also drop off items of food, toiletries, and household goods with Trish Parsons at Harcourts Hilton, 10 Hilton Avenue, Hilton for delivery to the family. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  