Vuyelwa Mtolo Vuki DlaminiPHOTO: facebook Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Popularly known as The King Kong of Public Speaking and #Motivational­Bae, Dlamini gained popularity for his speech at rapper Cassper Nyovest’s Fill Up FNB Stadium concert, and the creative script writing for the Gods Must Be Crazy parody video clip, which formed part of Nyovest’s concert. The former Alexandra High pupil said he created a poem for Nyovest as a praise song for him attempting to do such a big event. “Immediately it went viral and I got a call from some of his people saying Cassper wanted me to open Fill up the Dome; I ended up as one of the final acts at his show,” he said. Dlamini is also the lead face of Cell C’s new app, Black; has worked with Multichoice; and last year was one of the closing acts at Nyovest’s Fill Up concert. “I wrote the content for the narration of the show, the adverts and performed them, the television adverts and performed them, the curtain raiser poetic piece and performed it; all to over 60 000 people,” Dlamini said. Dlamini told The Witness that his career started when he took the first step and did something with his life. “A lot of people say they don’t know where to start, but do not realise that they will know a direction once they actually do something. “My first video was shot on a BlackBerry in the living room; I just started writing the content, and ended up where I am today,” he said. Dlamini was in the city last week as he hosted a workshop for young entrepreneurs. “The event I did was just trying to shape people’s minds, to know that there is a difference between a service and an experience; it’s about how you make people feel. “My workshop, as well as my motivations, are about inspiring people to become the best versions of themselves and to do what they do to the best of their ability,” he said. “People don’t realise that social media is a CV; employers are constantly looking for people on these platforms. Start! Whatever you have in mind, start, otherwise you will be stuck in the planning stage and wake up one day and realise you wasted so much time.” Dlamini plays the role of AJ, Wandi’s male lover. Watch Generations: The Legacy weekdays at 8 pm on SABC 1. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  