Mxolisi Mngadi Outeniqua Pass on fire from the Blanco side. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The death toll in the wildfire in the Bosdorp community has risen to eight people, police said on Monday night. Captain Malcolm Pojie said intially  four people were reported dead and later it was confirmed that the fatalities increased to eight people. Pojie said it was reported that a pregnant woman was among those who were later reported dead. The Garden Route District Municipality had earlier said the wildfire in the Bosdorp community has claimed four lives. "It is with great shock and deep sadness that we have been informed of four fatalities in the Bosdorp community due to the wildfire," the Garden Route District Municipality noted in a tweet. It said that EMS reported that one one adult, two toddlers and one baby died around 18:00. The municipality had earlier said the fire was moving through Karatara, in the Kraaibosh area above Rheenendal. It said three structures had burned down. Rheenendal Fire Management Units FMU’s have been activated, according to the municipality. Residents were being evacuated to the Karatara Community Hall. Over 200 people were currently in the hall, according to the municipality. The George and Garden Route District municipalities stated in a joint statement earlier that there were ongoing active fires in George in the Outeniqua Pass area, reported News24. In two areas close to the pass, the traffic department and police were aiding a precautionary evacuation. "George Municipality is, as a precaution, evacuating residents in Blanco Golden Valley and Step-Aside," according to a municipal alert. "We request people to move carefully and not to panic." Over the last week, firefighters in the Western Cape have been battling blazes in Kosovo informal settlement, Khayelitsha, Overcome Heights in Vrygrond and along the Garden Route.  Outeniqua Pass on fire (Supplied by Georgiete Staan Saam Facebook page)  Outeniqua Pass on fire (Supplied by Georgiete Staan Saam Facebook page)  Outeniqua Pass on fire (Supplied by Georgiete Staan Saam Facebook page) KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  