Mxolisi Mngadi EFF flag. (AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in KwaZulu-Natal plans to build on the victories of the EFF Students Command (EFFSC) in the recent Student Representative Council (SRC) elections in the province. The EFFSC won the SRC elections at the University of KwaZulu-Natal's Westville campus‚ the University of Zululand, the Durban University of Technology and the Mangosuthu University of Technology. "We are definitely going to build on that and tap into the energy of the students command in terms of taking the organisation forward. "If the EFF could sweep at tertiary institutions with this magnitude, it begins to tell you that our message resonates particularly with young people," the EFF KZN's newly elected chairperson, Vusi Khoza, said on Wednesday. Khoza, who was elected chairperson at the party's second provincial assembly over the weekend, said the party would target young people in its campaign for the 2019 national election. Mongezi Twala was elected Khoza's deputy, Sifiso Mthethwa as secretary, Pearl Harricks was elected deputy secretary, and the treasurer position went to Linda Mbele. "We know the majority of people in KwaZulu-Natal are young people between the ages 18 of and 35. Therefore, that's the market we are going to tap into because we believe that's the same market that will change the fortunes of the EFF in the province and surprise many people come 2019," said Khoza. He said they were also committed to fulfilling the campaign of reaching 1 million votes per province in the country. "We are going to be vigorously engaging with our regions to establish proper election structures to begin preparations for next year's election because we are committed to the campaign of 'one province, one million votes' started by the students command. We will definitely reach a million votes as the EFF in KwaZulu-Natal come 2019," he promised. He said they had a "simple strategy" to achieve their goal. "Our mission is to take the EFF to all corners of the province. We will make sure that the EFF has support in informal settlements, suburbs, townships, villages and cities. Our history speaks for itself. The EFF has been in existence for only a few years but there's free education, (former president Jacob) Zuma and (former finance minister Nhlanhla) Nene are gone because of the EFF, so I think this gives us an advantage because now the people know what the EFF can deliver," Khoza claimed. He said the dissolution of the party's leadership structures in the province in 2016 gave them a chance to rebuild the province. He added that their past challenges were a result of a lack of direction and clarity in terms of where the EFF should have focused. He also attributed the challenges to lack of proper training and induction, "but those are things of the past now". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  