Tania Broughton, Correspondent Mohammed Ebrahim, the man accused of kidnapping and murdering Durban boy Miguel Louw, appears in the Durban Magistrate's Court. (Tania Broughton, News24 Correspondent) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Relatives of 9-year-old Miguel Louw reacted angrily on Wednesday when they were informed that the State still did not have enough evidence to charge the suspect, Mohammed Ebrahim, with his murder. Presently, Ebrahim is only facing a charge of kidnapping. The young boy was last seen with Ebrahim, who is said to be a friend of the family, on July 17 this year, when CCTV footage captured them leaving a local KFC. READ: Miguel Louw's alleged killer to appear in court Three days later, Ebrahim was arrested, but he denied any knowledge of Miguel's location. The decomposed body of the young boy was found on September 3 in a park in Phoenix, a stone's throw from Ebrahim's home. On Wednesday morning, Ebrahim, who is out on R2 500 bail, made his first court appearance before Durban Magistrate Mohamed Motala since the discovery of the body. READ: Tears and heartache at Miguel Louw's funeral Expectations were high that he would be charged with murder and that his bail would be cancelled. But prosecutor Calvin Govender asked that the matter be adjourned until December 5 for further investigations. The magistrate extended his bail. It is believed that the State is still waiting for certain witness reports and, crucially, results of DNA testing. 'How can you do this?' Friends and relatives were furious, including Miguel's grandmother Arlene Louw, who was inconsolable. She shouted at the magistrate and had to be removed from the courtroom. Later, Louw was seen manhandling and swearing at Ebrahim's elderly father, Sheik Ebrahim Shah, as he attempted to leave the court building. Court security came to his assistance and he retreated inside. The group then gathered in the rain outside and there was another altercation between Louw and others, whom she accused of posting lies on Facebook. "You are coloured like us… how can you do this?… Go away, we don't want you here," she shouted. Miguel's mother Raylene reportedly left court as soon as the case was adjourned. Ebrahim told reporters outside the courtroom that he was receiving "very bad messages" on his phone. "They are threatening me," he said. Asked if he had spoken to the Louw family, he said: "No. I have nothing to say to them."  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  