YOU Digital PHOTO: Getty/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A father, who’d been wrongly accused of murdering his 19-year-old son, died just days after the teenager’s killer was jailed. In January 2004, Scott Pritchard (19) was viciously attacked with a baseball bat outside his Sunderland home in the UK, reports The Mirror. His father, Robert Stacey, commonly known as Fred, spent 16 weeks in custody after being charged with the murder but was later released after the charges were dropped. The case remained unsolved for almost 14 years, reports The Sun. But earlier this year Karen Tunmore, a girls’ football coach, handed herself into the police and confessed to killing the teenager. Karen bludgeoned Scott to death with a baseball bat, over a debt. She was sentenced on 1 October to a minimum of 17 years in jail. Sadly Robert suffered a heart attack just days before Karen was sentenced and passed away three days after the 36-year-old was jailed. Although Robert was acquitted of the murder in 2005, he reportedly lived life in fear because he was labelled a murderer by his local community, according to Chronicle Live UK. “From the moment I was informed of my son’s death it was a living nightmare,” Robert said in a victim impact statement during court proceedings in 2005. “His murder has broken me, my health has suffered. The nightmare of losing Scott only got worse. “A year after his death I was arrested for his murder. I was stunned. I can’t believe anyone would think I’d murdered my own son. “When I was charged everyone was calling me a murderer. It was tortuous to be falsely accused over his death.” Scott’s murder was one of the North East’s longest-running unsolved murders until Karen walked into Middle Engine Lane Police Station and made her confession, according to The Mirror. At the time of the killing Scott was living at home with his mother Kathleen and his younger brother and sister. Sources: The Sun, Daily Mail, The Mirror, Chronicle Live UK  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  